Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
  
Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)
or the table of ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[X ] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

...the freedom of assembly
and then theres the question if there is anything like
...
i go through the snowden slides quickly. these slides have two main parts. 1. informant> what human rights does he have 2. discloser
:::
informational freedom. the right to freely seek acess to .. information

amensties oppinion is that the freedom of expression is limited in this regard
national whistleblower protection lwas musst protect them from excessive sanction. if they are not excessiv



the european court of human rights das set on thos regard:
...
applies in general
...



for example these are criut
there is information that has to go out in public or there are actions of.... htat have
 to be reported
 
 


the authority and 
last but not least the motive we had to .. public..
there are some priciples that have been draftet, these are on the right o the proteton of the whistleblowers

and thats the ingformation anfd thar are the guidelines of what the whistlebplolowsers

can prevent whistle

and recently adopted some funny principles of secutriy ion the right
have also been signed by amnesty international
they give further guidance on this regard

what ahve actually ben the provblem that the us had with relesased
they are theft of governmenht property..

communications intelligence information


and amnesty said that the revelations are abount.. freedom of speech

clearly about...
release a bit of information
any trial? agaisnst edward snowdon may ... in political resecution?

on the other hand we have the information that have been released
and there is critical evidence that...
amnesty said that the right to


the right tp privacy covers not only... but also the metadata
there are certain limits wiht... the right to privacy . any surveillance matters must be known
national security maz be an legitimate aim but this is something that has to be carefully decided







and on the  other hand dwe currently .. in place in the uk.. regulatory .. investigative powers act..
which governs the surveillance in the UK
urgently needs reforms.


ther eare some limits .. internal communitcations.. proteted.

and on the otther hand, as i just said, the information of freedom,
the sourcess wourld be discouraged of... a lot of informants about... all over the world
and these sources might be..
but amnesty .. their comunications are..
most . i think..
there are a couple of ohter initiatives, whicht i dont have the time to talk about now
like brotherwatch and the.constanze kurz? of the.. chaos computer club.
and let'S not forget about..

so this is even mor worriing
if i advice intelligence agency. just about anyhting that justifies their power seem to be goo? for national security
for example encypt your communication is only to the content and not the meta-data
if you encrypt ypur metadata is makes you suspicios for the nsa

you will probably lose this game. 

we need some cooperation, we need to join our forces. technplogy can ... solve problems. then you dont understand technology and you dont understand your problems

so i'm quickly going forward move forwart to quote tim bernres lee
freedom of digital..
 human rights defenders like amnesty are key to win the battle.
 we hope that we will find a lot section within amnestey international that will help us, ... others that joinb us,.. but we also 
we need you , hackers...
national security organisations and intelligence agencies all over the world cooperate against  human rights
what is your share?
amnesty is a newby on the stage of digital rights. we have been said a couple of times ...
we have been involved in all this. and we have voiced our consents but not as focused as you have now. i know ... in germany that do that for a long time. we need to join our forces on that.
what is our share?
...
we have a high ccreditbility, because we are... are an independent .. organisation
i believe that oth you and us we have a lot in commin, we have common goals, in order to fight this war on privacy, that
in order to privacy has taken place
by edward snowden but
also other digital right issues
eric schmit famous statement in my mind
these disclosures, they
were actually ment
to use as criticism
he said
if you have something noone should know maybe you should not do it at all. with regard to ciritisim
onto the intelligence agencies
you shouldnt bie doing that
if you keep it secret
maybe it is for a reason
you dont want anyboye to know what your doing agains human rights, waht can you do to take aktion
help asemble organise sessions
discuss with you what we can so
 how we can actually cooperate better together aat a natinal level, local join our forces
we can do more
i would like to invite you to this session
with theis i think I am already over time
I would like to thank you all and hoepfully see you all 
thank you
[applaus]























































