Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 

Links to video:

CCC-TV: http://media.ccc.de/browse/congress/2013/30C3_-_5423_-_en_-_saal_1_-_201312272030_-_the_tor_network_-_jacob_-_arma.html

Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CJNxbpbHA-I (easier for transcription because it reacts to left/arrows for rwd/fwd)


The Tor Network 
Saal 1
[Jacob Appelbaum]
So, thanks very much to the guy who brought me a Mate. I learned his name is Alexander. It's never a good idea to take drugs from strangers, so I introduced myself before I drank it - thank you.

First I wanted to say that following up after Glenn Greenwald is a great honor and a really difficult thing to do, that's a really tough act to follow, and he's pretty much one of, I think, our heroes.

So, it's really great to be able to share the stage with him, even for just a brief moment. And I wanted to do something a little unconventional when we started and Roger agreed.

Which is that we want people who have questions - since I suspect some things happened this year that arouse a lot of questions in people - we'd like you to write those questions down, pass them to an Angel or to just bring them to the front of the stage as soon as possible during the talk, so that we can answer as many of your questions as is possible.

This is a lot of stuff that happened, there's a lot of confusion, and we wanna make sure that people feel like we are actually answering those questions in a useful way.

And if you wanna do that, it'd be great, and otherwise, we're gonna try to have the second half of our talk be mostly space for questioning.

So with that, here is Roger.

[Roger Dingledine]
Okay, so, a lot of things have happened over this past year, and we're gonna try and cover as many of them as we can.

Here's a great quote from either NSA or GCHQ, I'm actually not sure which one it is. But we're gonna start a little bit earlier in the process than this and work our way up to that.

So, we're in a war, or rather, conflict of perception here. There are a lot - I mean, you saw Glenn's talk earlier - there are a lot of large media organisations out there that are trying to present Tor in lots of different ways,

and we all here understand the value that Tor provides to the world, but there are a growing number of people around the world who are learning about Tor not from our website, or from seeing one of these talks or from learning it from somebody who uses it and teaches them how to use it.

But they read the Time Magazine or Economist or whatever the mainstream newspapers are, and part of our challenge is how do we help you, and help the rest of the world do outreach and education, so that people can understand what Tor is for and how it works and what sorts of people actually use it.

So, for example, GCHQ has been given instructions to try to kill Tor by, I mean, who knows, maybe they thought of it on their own, maybe we can imagine some nearby governments asked them to do it. And part of the challenge... they say "we have to kill it because of child porn".

And it turns out that we actually do know that some people around the world are using Tor for child porn. For example, we have talked to a lot of federal agencies who use Tor to fetch child porn. [subdued laughter]

I talked to people in the FBI who use Tor every day to safely reach the websites that they want to investigate.

The most crazy example of this is actually the Internet Watch Foundation. How many people here have heard of the Internet Watch Foundation? I see a very small number of hands.

They are the censorship wing of the British government. They are the sort of quasi-government organisation who is tasked with coming up with the blacklist for the internet for England.

And, we got e-mail from them a few years ago, saying - not what you'd expect, you'd expect "Hey, can you please shut this thing down, can you turn it off, it's a big hassle for us." - the question they asked me was: "How can we make Tor faster?" [laughter, claps]

It turns out that they need Tor, because people report URLs to them, they need to fetch them somehow. It turns out that when you go the URL with the allegedly bad stuff on it and you're coming from the Internet Watch Foundation's IP-address, they give you kittens. [laughter]

Who would have known? [laughter, applause]

So it turns out that these censors need an anonymity system in order to censor their internet. [laughter] Fun times.

So another challenge here: at the same point, one of my side hobbies is teaching law enforcement how the internet works, and how security works and how Tor works.

So, yeah, their job does suck, but it's actually not our fault that their job sucks. There are a lot of different challenges to sucessfully being a good, honest law enforcement person these days.

So, for example, I went to Amsterdam and Brussels in January of this past year to try to teach various law enforcement groups.

And I ended up having a four-hour debate with the Dutch regional police, and then another four-hour debate with a Belgian cybercrime unit and then another four-hour debate with the Dutch national police.

And, there are a lot of good-meaning smart people in each of these organisations, but they end up, as a group, doing sometimes quite bad things.

So part of our challeng is: how do we teach them that Tor is not the enemy for them?

And there are a couple of stories that I've been trying to refine using on them. One of them they always pull out, the "But what about child porn? What about bad people? What about some creep using Tor to do bad things?".

And one of the arguments that I tried on them was, “Okay, so on the one hand we have a girl in Syria who is alive right now because of Tor. Because her family was able to communicate safely and the Syrian military didn’t break in and murder all of them."

"On the other hand, we have a girl in America who is getting hassled by some creep on the internet who is stalking her over Tor."

So the question is, how do we balance, how do we value these things? How do we assign a value to the girl in Syria and how do we assign a value to the girl in America so that we can decide which one of these is more important?

And actually the answer is, you don’t get to make that choice, that’s not the right question to ask.

Because if we take Tor away from the girl in Syria, she’s going to die. If we take Tor away from the creep in America, he’s got a lot of other options for how he can be a creep and start stalking people.

So if you’re a bad person, for various definitions of bad person, and you’re willing to break laws or go around social norms, you’ve got a lot of other options besides what Tor provides.

Whereas there are very few tools out there like Tor for honest, I'd like to say law-abiding, but let's go with civilization-abiding citizens out there.

[Jacob Appelbaum]
And it’s important to understand that this hypothetical thing is actually also true for certain values.

So at our Tor developer meeting that we had in Munich recently, that Syrian woman came to us, and thanked us for Tor. She said, “I’m from a city called Homs. You might have heard about it, it’s not a city anymore."

"I used Tor. My family used Tor. We were able to keep ourselves safe on the internet thanks to Tor. So I wanted to come here to Munich to tell you this. Thank you for the work that you’re doing."

And for people who - this was their first dev meeting - they were completely blown away to meet this person. - 'Wow, the stuff that we're working on, it really does matter, there are real people behind it.'

And, I think, we were all really touched by it, and all of us know someone who has been on the receiving end of people being jerks on the internet.

So this is a real thing where there are real people involved, and it's really important to understand that if you remove the option for that woman in Syria

- or you here in Germany, now that we know what Edward Snowden has told the world -

those bad guys, those jerks, for different values of that, they always have options. But very rarely do all of us have options that will actually keep us safe.

And Tor is certainly not the only one, but right now, and we hope in this talk you'll see that we're making the right tradeoff by working on Tor.

[Roger Dingledine]
One of the other talks that I give to them, one of the other stories that I give to them,

one of the big questions they always ask me is: "But what about terrorists? Aren't you helping terrorists?"

And we, we can and we should talk about "What do you mean by terrorists?" because in China they have a very different definition of terrorists and in Ghaza they have a very different definition of terrorists,

and in America, they are always thinking of a small number of people in some Middle-Eastern country who are trying to blow up buildings or something -

[Jacob Appelbaum]
Mohamed Badguy, I think is his name.

[Roger Dingledine]
Yes, that -

[Jacob Appelbaum]
In the NSA slides.

[Roger Dingledine]
Yes.

So, scenario one: I want to build a tool that works for millions of people, it will work for the next year, and I can tell you how it works, so you can help me evaluate it.

That's Tor's problem.

Scenario two: I want to build a tool that will work for the next two weeks, it will work for 20 people and I'm not going to tell you about it.

There are so many more ways of solving scenario two than solving scenario one.

The bad guys for all sorts of definitions, the bad guys have a lot more options on how they can keep safe. They don't have to scale, it doesn't have to last forever, they don't want peer review, they don't want anybody to even know that it's happening.

So the challenge that Tor has is that we wanna build something that works for everybody and that everybody can analyze and learn about. That's a much harder problem, there are far fewer ways of solving that.

So, the terrorists, they got a lot of options. That sucks. We need to build tools that can keep the rest of the world save.

[Jacob Appelbaum]
And it's important, really, to try to have some good rethorical arguments, I think. I mean, we sort of put a few facts up here.

One interesting point to mention is that people who really don't want anonymity to exist in a practical sense, maybe not even in a theoretical, human rights sense either, but definitely in a practical sense, they're not really having honest conversations about it.

For example, this DOJ study, the Department of Justice in the United States, they actually started to do a study where they classified traffic leaving Tor exit nodes.

Which is interesting - that they were basically probably wiretapping an exit node to do that study, I wonder how they went about that - but nonetheless, they came up with the number of three percent of the traffic being bad and then they aborted the study because they received many DMCA takedown notices. [laughter]

[Roger Dingledine]
Yes, they - 

[Jacob Appelbaum]
Apparently even the DMCA is a problem to finding out answers. [unintelligible]

[Roger Dingledine, interrupts]
They asked a university to run the Tor exit for them and they were just starting out doing their study, and then the university started getting DMCA takedowns and said:

"Well, we have to stop, the lawyers told us to stop!", and the Department of Justice said: "We're the Department of Justice, keep doing it.", and then they turned it off. [laughter]

So, not sure how the balance of power goes there, but the initial results they were looking towards were about three percent of the traffic coming out of that Tor exit node was bad, but I haven't figured out what they mean by "bad". But I'll take it if it's three percent.

[Jacob Appelbaum]

Jake dislikes the term 'war' when talking about the internet. The BBC has articles on their website on using Tor + Silk Road to buy drugs. We don't do that - even though Bitcoin is amazing, it's not anonymous. BBC has a 'man-bite-dog'-approach, they run with everything which looks a bit interesting. We dont wan tthat: we want for every person to have the right and possiblity to express themselves. When the BBC ran a story about Tor, everyone was thankful, then they posted another article on Tor+Silk Road.

That has a serious problem, the war on drugs becomes intertwined with the war on Tor. Agent who showed 'massive drop ' in Tor traffic after Silk Road shut down, was with US govt. Such publicty always leads to drop, not necessarily directly connected. Then they checked the data, see graph, and saw almost no drop. Can you guess where the drop the agent talks about occurred? It didn't go down by 50%. Agent waswrong. Qrrow where it would have dropped according to agent. Here's a graph of the overall network growth over the past three years. Multiple relays added after Snowden revelations.

The Dark Web (or other scary names) is media trying to produce as many articles as they can. Definitions range from 'every webpage that Google can't index' (so every govt database, etc), '98% of pages are in dark web', 'only way to access dark web is through Tor'. These statements together sell many articles, people are shocked.

REality is that it's not actually the case. People here know this: these stories are clickbait'. Few hands go up about Tor hidden se
(lost connection for a minute)

These things also bring out much negative attention. The Freedom Hosting was relentlessly attacked, because the topics the other sites have pull on peoples' hearts in a big way. First issue of WikiLeaks was really hard on many people. The news also picks up on that in negative ways. You could call that a cultural conflict.

I heard from a DEA person who was involved in Farmer's Market takedown. Old drug webiste, Tor was not involved. DEA wanted to take it down. They sent a letter to take it down, 
[...]
People used hushmail. Year or two later people discovered Tor. SIx months later there were all these newspaper articles about how Tor hidden services are broken. They were using PayPal directly. Story is 'don 't use Hushmail'. Don't use lawful interception-compliant or backdoored services, such as Hushmail, especially if you traffic drugs.

As a result, we have seen some pretty crazy stuff happen. In this case, this year we saw one of the most intersting exploits we have seen deployed againts a broad scale of users. Not sure who was behind it. Claimed by an FBI agent, IP space may be NSA-owned. Exploit in Firefox. Traditionally, if  you don't use Tor, they go to your house and install gear or intercept your connection. They find out who you are, target you, serve you an exploit. Here, they had taken over a Tor hidden service and explited old versions of Tor browser. Not used as fresh zero-day. When the FBI did this, they give this exploit to other regimes as well. They would like to be able to be more up to speed with Firefox. HOwever, there is still desynchronisation. They have probably hired some people from this community - fuck you- and have them write their exploits.

Now we're looking into Chrome, which has a differen t and sometimes more secure architecture.

We're hoping to work on using Chrome, anyone want to help? Please do.

Diversity of funding - a lot of funding comes from governmetns. There are ten things we wan't to work on, if you want to fund one of those ten, you can focus our interests. Government funding helps to do many cool things. people can be payed to work on Tor, on the other hand governments can influence our priorities. We will not put backdoors in Tor.

People have approached us to put backdoors in Tor. It is a serious committment to not do this. We fix everything as soon as we find out that something is wrong. There are people who have tried to have us change that committment. When we say we are non-profit, they are dumbfounded.

US DoJ person approached, Congress has given us right to backdoor everything, you have to make a backdoor so that we can use our rights to surveil everybody. You abuse the righst you have been given by our country. Then they said they are nonprofit and the conversation bascially ended. Part of what they need to do: continue to make safe tools.

Everyone wants to help for anti-censorship, noone wants to pay for better anonimyt. People are often dependent on the anonimity Tor allows. There is a tradeoff with a lot of our founders, they don't like us as much when we say really outrageaous thiings. We want funders who want the same things as you and us: if you know someone, please approach us.

It's easy to say we should not be political. It's also crazy to say so, because the idea of haveing free speech and freedom of information is a very political idea. Especillay after the summer of Snowden, we realize almost no tools can resist NSA/GCHQ. They can't get all Tor users, we made it very expensive for them to do mass surveillance. Please note that the solution is not partisan: all people are equally good or bad. The common good of every one having these rights protected is an important thing to build and to have. That is the best kind of political solution we can have. We however need 
[...]

We need everyone in the same network, diversity of users. From a technical perspective, so that they can keep each other safe. We all get better when the others are involved. Having Jake talk to LE is not the most effective way. Lawyer said "Never miss a chance to shut the fuck up". Therefore we instruct everybody: corporations, civil righst groups, LE. We need you to be involved and share the word in your co
[...]
We're pretty good in fighting back against policies and legal changes. If ISPs hate exit relays, it becomes harder to run one. We're doing ok in that respect. Third one we have not focused on as much as we could. Growing number of places are just rejecting Tor users. Wikipedia, Skype. Microsoft hangs up on you if you want to Skype, because of blacklist from some company, they blakclist Tor exit relays. We need help learning how to teach all these companies to not judge users on their IP adresses.

When a company does not want to give you location anonimity, maybe there's a reason for that. OFten they don't have metrics for not having location data. In a few cases it's better that Tor is blocked, because they don't allow anonymous logins when Tor is allowed. We need to show that it is the best thing right now. We need people to help us understand the overlap between the Tor community and their community (especially Wikipedia). If Iḿ not abusive on Wikipedia, I should be able to login anonymously. Especially since the only way to anonymously use wikipedia is through Tor.

The last point is this one (graph). People started yelling 'IPO'. Aparrently, some person signed up his entire botnet. It's good to know scalability measures work. We had to make some changes. Using elliptic curves as really helped to lower work on the relasy. If this had been a real attacker against the Tor network, it probably would have been fatal. Microsoft has the power to remove the things they think are malicious. Tor clients on these bots are often still installed. Botnet happening in same time as Snowden revelations makes it hard to assess the impact of these revelations on Tor use. Bots connecting are a really serious threat to the Tor network.

It would make it significantly harder to damage the Tor network if more people were involved. When talking of funding for better anonimity, how much do you need? If you're wiilling to fund it, it wuold be great if you could match what government funders bring to the table. Or as much money as you have, both are great. If it ends up on the 2 million USD we have no money for extras. We have to build all sorts of tools that are not directly related to Tor. It's not enough to have Tor, hyou need tools to work with Tor. We haven't really experimented with that.

The NSA and GCHQ have decided that they don't like anonimity and want to eradicate it. A few exceptions. I will talk about this on monday. On the Tor side, Quick Ant is a [...]. It is recording data about TLS sessions, pulled from a larger pile that is called FLYINGPIG. That program is kind of scary, but not too much. Quantum INsert is a scary man on the side attack. FOXACID is a targeted attack, sort of awatering hole attack. When you use Tor they make your server redirect to their malicious code and hit you. It took them eight months to hit one Tor user. That's great. It really takes much effort to hit one person, they need that person to be caught.

Quantom Cookie is a program to retrieve other browser connections to find out concurrent browser activity. Then they would insert other things the browser would request to see what other activity you have. Solution is HTTPS EVerywhere, whihc also allows session isolation. On the other hand, not every website allows TLS. The thing that makes it interseting is that they do it at internet scale.

You would imaginge that not routing through Five Eyes countries makes you safer. On the other hand, in the Five Eyes countries you have some protections. The key point to take home is that every single person here has the same problems if they're not useing Tor.

The story here is they look at Tor traffic coming out of Tor relays
they don't know who it is.
On the one hand, they need borad attacks (not targeted).

DNI sent out a press release that they are never attacking US citizens. {...]James Platter is an asshole (:) )

I talked to an NSA person a couple of weeks ago ... You have to attack all non-Americans/ No, only if they are the person who we are attacking. I wish we had 90000 Tor nodes, that would be incredible. When the NSA ran tor notdes, that was about a dozen.

They can watch your Tor relays, which is as good as having their own relay. We should not be worried they're runnning relays. It's a concern, but the bigger concern is that they're watching the whole internet. The problem is not so much are they running relays but how many normal relays can they watch. A large adversary like the NSA: a third? Half/ We don't know.

Who here uses a VPN or some kind of VPN service [about 1/4]? This is a big problem, the hide-my-ass problem. They basically promote their service for revolution in Egupt, but turn around when aimed at the UK.
We need to build decentralized systems
In some cases we know that VPN proxies have data retion for 10-15 year, that 's bad news. The news on VPNs is not in your favor.

What happens with this stuff? It could be that the silk road fellow used VPN. It could also be that the NSA has tracked him in some other way. Parallel construction is a really serious problem, if we could expand Tor network, we would make it significantly harder to do that. We live in a world were intelligence services and LE are merging together. That is a sierious problem for Tor.

NSA is doing bad stuff, why should that affect FBI? They said they told the FBI. Do they anonymously tip the FBI? Is there a third party anonymous whistleblower? From the FBI point of view, thats basically the same.

We are able to adress some questions. Summaries: We want to improve hidden services. We want to make them strong, especially improve performance. The more mainstream they become, the more use we will be seeing. It should be esay to use them. The most important things for cypherpunks to understand. 

If you like, use Bitcoin. If you want to give us lots of BItocins, do not get dsicouraged. In Noisy Square, there is now a talk on helping Tor. We need you to teach other poeple on why





Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[ x] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{coffee talk}  {the speaker desperately needs coffee}  *giggling* an audience member currently gives up his coffee.

The Tor Network we live in interesting times. 

Tahnks very much for the guy bringing me coffe. never good to accept from strangers but thank yo.
Hard to follow glenn greenwald but thanks to greenwald.
something unconventinal , we want people to ask questions. write down the questions and 
(audio out)


You dont get to make that choice. if we take tor away form sysria she dies, if we take it away form the creep on tor in america , he will find other ways to be a creep.  whereas there are very few tools out there like tor to use for law abiding citizens. 

thegirl from syria actually approached torproject and say thank you for the work that torproject oes.  the dev meeting was blown away by this person and everyone was touched by it.  this is a real thing where there are real people involved. if we remove the option for the girl in syria,  if you remove the Tor, the bad guys will still have ways to be bad but without Tor the public will not have a way ...

what about terrorists.
So many way to solve senario 2 than senerio 1.  

[speakers talk extremely fast]

It is good to have rhetorical arguments.  People who dont want anonymity to exist (audio out)
...
we bought some and it was really good. What motivation do they have here? There goal is to get more clicks. it doesnt matter what we destroy when we do it.
This has many problems.
There mission is impacted by Tor. They have an enemy they can point to.
When silk road was busted, at a particular meeting, a us govt meeting, an agent evaluated the silkroad bust and  saw a 50% drop when it was busted.  I started to reason with thim, when media (audio out, again)
[showing Tor realy bandwidth slide]
Shows extremely small 'drop' on slide.

Then,there is the dark or deep web. This comes back to the media producing as many articles as they can.
"The dark web is every page out there that google cannot index" (sample definition)
"Everything you access, your work etc is dark web."
"90% of web pages are in the dark web" (sample)
"the only way to access the dark web is through tor ("sample def)
{laugher}

the reality is that is not the case. everyone here and watching the video stream. that set up is 'click bait'
there are some high profile services, 'raise you hand if you have run a tor hidden service'. 
......
for the most part , the top one with wikileaks. and with global ... (connection down)....

The news picked up on this in various ways. 
I actually heard form a DEA about the farmers market story, they sold drugs, omg, and tor was no where in the story and the DEA wanted to take it down and the country that received the letter said screw you so they tried to investigate the people behind it who where using hushmail. and they sent a letter ot canada hushmail and then 6 months after using hushmail and tor 


We've asked firefox to inegrate some of these privacy integrated things and they seem to be friendly to it.  Even with the synchronization with firefox , they are not as fas t as with some of the people in the community (ahem, fuck you) and that is exponetionly ...
the chrome team is doing a good job.




I tend to believe we need to be engaged






So scenario 1, I watnt to buid a tool that works for millions of people, and I can tell you how it works
I want to build a tool for the next 2 weeks, it will work for 20 people, and I'm not going to tell you about it
The bad guys have a lot more options to how they can keep safe
So the challenge that TOR has is that they want to build something that works for everyone
so the terrorist has a lot of options, that sucks, we need to build tools that the rest of the world can use
one interesting point to mention is that people who don't want anonymity to exist in a practical sense
this doj study, they actually started to do a study where they 
they came up with the number 3% of the traffic being bad
the universities started getting DMCA takedowns, and the lawyers told them to stop
the initial results they were looking towards, about 3% of the traffic coming out of that exit node was 'bad'
I personally don't like to use the word 'war' when talking about the internet
and one of the most frustrating things, is the BBC actually have articles on their site about how to use the Silk Road and TOR
it isn't the case that these websites isn't a good idea, and it
and in this case they literally were promoting, and pushing people to buy drugs, which is really amazing and surprises me
what we want is every person has the right to speak freely on the internet
and the comment section, oh wow thanks, this is great, thanks, this is great, I don't have to get shot in the street
and we bought some, and it was really good :3
their goal in this case was to get more clicks. doesn't matter what we destroy
and they want to show that their mission is of course impacted by TOR, 
about an agent, as it says in the last point, which showed a massive drop in the network usage
I evaluated the TOR network load, during the silk road bust, and I 
We can understand that it can be reasonable that people would stop using for a while
so the green line is the capacity of the TOR network over time
can you guess? if you don't look on the dates on the bottom, can you see the drop?
but just for the record, that's where he said that it went down 
*laughter* *applause*
here's a graph of the overall network growth of the past 3-4 years. So the green line is the capacity, and you can see that a lot of people have added more relays
And then there is the dark web, the deep web, or whatever else you want to call it. It comes down to the media 
the dark web, is every web page out there, that google can't index
*applause*
every coproate database, every government database, ever, every thing that you access that google can't get to
statement 3 that the media has added this year, the only way you can access the deep web is through TOR 
so really the reality of this is that it's not actually the case. 
for everyone here, 
there are a few high profile hidden services, actually, for a show of hands, raise your hands if you run a hidden service
these four sites, these 4 entities, have produced most of the stories about the deep, gaping, whatever you call it web
and in fact, with global leaks, they are deploying more and more hidden services that you also haven't heard about
and those things also bring out a disproportionate amount of negative information about
and he was relentlessly attacked, because he happened to have, a registration for a company
they really pull on people's hearts in a big way, and that sort of created a lot of stress
and it really sad series of events. and of course the news picked up on it in a negative way.
the farmers market has quite an interesting story, that you wanted to tell?
yeah I actually heard from a DEA person that was involved in the bust of the farmers market
t

and then they switched over tor, and 6 months later, it was a good time to bust them, and there were all these good 

don't use hushmail, seriously, it's a bad idea. and don't use things where they have a habit of backdooring or cooperating with lawful intercept 
and we should respect them as much as they deserve
but everybody else, protect yourself. So, the thing is, not every single person is not stupid enough to use hush mail. So, as a result, we started seeing some pretty 
probably not the most interesting exploits that we've ever seen, but the most interesting exploit we've seen deployed to all these users
was either esiei or NSA, and I had an exchange with one of the guys behind the aldsfha exploint company, and he has on a couple of occasions of writing exploits for the tor browser
or they do some interception with an imsi catcher
they find out who you are, they begin to target you, and 
there was a period of time where you could really badly troll all your friends by just putting a link up
when the FBI did this, they basically gave the exploit to everyone
this is a really interesting difference between other ways that the FBI could bust you
and they generally seemed friendly to it, but we have desynchonization, but even with this desync, we were still aheah of them
and that's a really serious change,
we want to have a lot of diversity, in a lot of browsers, but we have a very straight sense of privacy
that have been mostly by some guy 
if anyone here would like about it, it's really something that we really need some help with
another exiting topic is the diversity of funding. a lot of our funding comes from governments, US mostly, but some other governments as well because they have things that they want us to work on
we've got 10 things we want to work on , if you want us to work on one of them, 
so if you can, if you have funding for one of these, we can focus on one of these that you're interested in
a lot of the stuff that you've seen coming from tor in the past couple of years,
On the other hand it's bad because funders can influence out priorities, now, there's no conspiracy of anything
Give me view more details! - People have approached us obviously in order to get us to do these sort of things, this is a serious thing that we
we try to fix it as soon as possible, regardless
extends beyond any reasonable commitment, and we really believe that commitment and there are people...
and you're able to have a company, and make a company, so that you can make
who basically said, 
department of justice person
congress has basically given us, the right to backdoor everything
and you are taking advantage of the situation that we'ev given to you in america, with freedom of speech and everything
congress said whe should have. And then, then the conversation basically ended, and she had no further thing to say.
so part of what we need to do, is to make tools that area ctually safe as tools, rather than the lot of other .. out there
education, training and so on. We don't have any funders right now, who want to pay for better annonymity. And it's really important for some poeple that we have heard in the last talk that they have good anonymity
so, what should tor's role be here? there are a lot of people in the TOR community saying that we should just focus on writing good code, and the rest will sort itself out
but some of our funders might wonder if they should keep funding us after so part of what we need to do .. that
would like the world to hear. SO if you know anybody who'd like to provide actual freedom, we'd love to hear from you
it's easy to say there shouldn't be politics in what we're doing. And you must also understannd that it's crazy when someone says that
that is a very political thing for many pople, and it is often the privilage for some, that they don't even consider it to be a political statement
understangint that there are almost no tools that can resist the NSA and the GCHQ
but they couldn't get all tor users, that's really important: We changed the political game for them
and that, fundamentally, is a political issue
it's not a partisan solution where we say that some poeple are good, and some are bad
we're saying that the common good, of everyone having these fundamental rights .. protected .. them, 
for every person to have. That is the best kind of political solution that we can come up with .
in some ways. We can't actually do it unless everyone actually starts to agree with us
And that diversity of users, is actually technically is what makes TOR safe. You need to have activists in various countries
you need to have them all in the same network, otherwise, if I see that you're using tor, I can 
.. safe. so part of the hobby is that each tor person have, we're all getting better at outreach to various communities
so, I mentioned earlier 'm, i'm, yeah. My lawyer gave me some great advice: never miss the chance to shut the fuck up
much more diplomatic. So at the same time, we have poeple talking about domestic violence and abuse groups, and at the same time we have folks and coorporations 
that you're talking to and learn how to use their language, and convince them that these things are important
ok, so, a while ago I wrote up a list of 3 ways to destroy tor. The first way is to change the laws of privacy and ** ... so that anonymity is outlawd
there are good uses to these things, you can't take them away from the world
make ISPs hosting exit relays. and if more and more ISPs says that they don't want to do it
so I think we're doing pretty well about fighting that fight,
with ISPs. But the third one, is one that we haven't focused on
make websites hate tor users
wikipedia did id a long time ago, google gave you a captcha if you're lucky
so, skype is another interesting example here. If you run a tor exit relay, and you call someone, skype hangs up on you.   .. microsoft pays ..
so as more and more of these blacklisting companies exist, we're more and mroe screwed
we need help to teach all these companies to learn .. IP addresses  .. 
which is to say that when a company does not want to give you location anonymitiy, maybe there's a reason for it
given what we've learned, it makes sense, that they demonstrate that they do not
abuse. often they won't have metrics for it, and they refuse to work with us to come up with invented solutions 
or something where you solvea  captcha, somewhere where you have to have an account,
.. because they don't even provide secure logsin when you're not using tor
so in a sort of funny sense, it could be helpful that they are blocking tor
we need to show that these are the best thing right now
and we need people 
especially Wikipedia. For me personally, that the way 
ask them to set a special flag in the wikipedia database, and then I can log in and edit. it's not really the ideal solution
I should be able to have a pseudonomynous way to edti it
is to in fact use tor or something like it * applause 
so, the last point on that, is this one. what was the joke [] about [IPO, IPO, IPO!]
so in the course of a week or so, we added about 4 or 5 million tor clients to the network 
actually, some jerk in the ukraine signed up 5 million bots as tor clients
one thing we learned .. it worked ... we had to make some changes, there is for example the 
this is a pretty big change, but there is a lot of work that need to be changed
attacker, if the botnet have been turned against the tor network, it may have been fatal for the tor network
they were going around and removing tor clients from users who were
that's a lot of power .. Microsoft ..word to the wise: bad idea. They actually removed the bot and left the tor client
Snowden it's hard to tell, there are some bits of information that we're missing here. Due to the 
NSA spy, especially now? I mean, we think that most of that is botnet trafffc, over a million, where it goes up
threat to the tor network. It can be alleviated a couple of different ways, I meniotned before
not an exit relay, it would make it significantly harder to milk the tor network 
events like this .. in the future
*claps*
so someone sent a question, that I'm just going to go ans answer now
how much could you need? well, here's the thing, if you were willing to fund us, I would really especially like it, since I'm the one that
you could match the dollar to dollar that government funders brign to the table. we would really love that, it would actually be amazing if you could do that
or as much as you can
2 million us and 3 million us, expect that we're trying to do many great things 
no funding to make anonymity better. if it ends up more than that, we're in good shape, and we can make 
but because we want users to use the software with something, it's not enough 
alternate funding models where we have .. we haen't really experiment with that
it's not classified anymore, it's on the internet
so this is probably the hot topic, this is probably the one that everyone wants to know about
so the NSA and the gchc have decided they don't want anonymity .. with a few exceptions, there are a few different programs
but for the Tor side of it, quick ant is what is called a question filled data set
this is a ?? what that means is it is recording data, that is, data retention about something
Glenn scream. That program, is kind of scary, but not too scary, it looks like after the fact
Fox assets is basically just the tailored access and operation server farm where they serve up malware
[NSA and MSNbc loves Yahoo] when you use tor, they basically redirect you, by basically tagging a bit of data in the tcp connection
and they're using this to pop somebody. From what I understand, it took them 8 months to get 1 guy. That's fucking great, I think. We went from 
work for a long time they really believe that that's the right target. 
of the game not exactly sure. but, there are some other things that are really dangerous. which is Quantum cookies for example
leak cookie information. So let's say that you log into yahoo account, and that was a known selector for surveillance
other cookies then they would basically insert thing, that your browser would request over an insecure connection
but also to be aware of sessional isolation
TLS to actually make sure that the tor browser only has the exact set of credentialy for what thing you're doing at the time


ETC


If you choose to spy on the citizens the NSA almost always wins.

The NSA will get whatever data you have stored away.

You must choose a different

Equador understood that they are not the best at surveillance and they realized the game is rigged.
and there is no ... now

because of a broad siciety movement

it's not actually dark everywhere

there are other tools
lot of other crypto improvements
new tor browser bundle
everybody can build .. same binary to everybody can check
metrics, censorship resistance

as a final note: we accept bitcoins now, we'd encourage bitcoin millionnaires to help us
really important to show people we have alternative methods of funding community projects
please don't get discouraged
starting now in noisy square

we need you to teach other people why tor is important, thank you

[no time for Q/A left]













