Amara Link: http://www.amara.org/de/videos/i0fwhOq5pZZB/info/



to prison for crimes they did not  decided to...ththe four wars

-english-

Thank you very much for that nick and thanks to the CCC for inviting me

This has to be the biggest room i've ever spoken in

...

I and my former partner David Shalow?? were there for about six years each
and we resinded to blow the whisle


in 1998 when the brithsh goernment tried but failed to extradite him from France.

In 2000 he returned voluntarily to the UK to stand trial and of course ended up in prison, found guilty.

So, he paid a very high price for his whistleblowing activities
I paid a very high price for whistle blowing activities.
And lots of people around us did aswell.

...

But one thing i learned from that is 
one how the media can be controlled I can be spung by the intelligence agency
and two the value of privacy

during those years we knew that we were being investigated by the spies we know that our communications would be intercepted

we knew as well that there was a high probability that there were probably bugs planted into our home even in our bedroom

some of our friends have been pressured to tell on us

it is incredibily.. to the human spirut ti... that everything you say, everything you do and you say is beeing listened to by a gray person in a grey office
and you begin to self-censor. Youre going to … 

...and thats what we had to live thrugh
so 
now we all know that we are being listened to and watched and surveilled in this amazingly panopticum manner

this is why i continued to fight for privacy this is why i continue to prey …

however, thos talk was initally ... to b a four wars talk
this is something i began to state … in the last year.…

through all profesiional experiece, we know that the war on drugs has failled. and we know it for these reasons 
I want to … quckly … through
the war on drugs
the war on terror
the war on internet, of which you're all experts
the war on …

how di tey link in my strange mind

to fight for the the basic concept of rights 
so we cannot be extra … murdered kidnapped and tortured and disapeared
of 

freedom of privacy is …

The war on drugs has been used to erode liberties for 15 years
i see these all, as basic attempt to subvert [...]

We cann..


so what were looking at now, at the last 50 years or so  is a pusback against those freedoms the declaration of human rights ?

the war on drugs is probably the first perversion of this fightback. and i say this because the 
and i say this because
drugs are evil bla bla bla

we have a situation where the war on drugs has been used for 50 years to erode civil liberties in every country 

it becomes a reason to break into peoples houses 
it becomes a reason to target specific communities and imprison them disproportionately.
where they have other strategic interests
particaularly latin america and partuclarly central asia and north africa.
and this trade is worth estimated to half a trilllion dollars per year
and that is all going in pockets of organised cartels and criminals,
nad not only the criminals in the banking industry, lets point that out
[applause]
also into the pockets of people, orginazitions that are …

or terrorist enemies
it is estimated that over half of the pranisations of the world are designatied to be terrorists

are funded primarily through drug money. so on the one hand we prohibit the trade on drugs...

and the in created teh world drug
and we want to fight the 
it is perfect for the


I'm mean in even in afghanistan which we liberated and they're so happy, they estimmated that during the wests occupation that the ..and stragely . has doubled and under the british has trippled

anyway
this is a major problem, but it',s probably … going away in the next years
ther have been massive steps across europe

and even in america itself the fountain… of the war on drugs – two states now have fully legaliyed canabis use even for fun
and over 20 states hae already legaliyed for medicinal use

even for fun
or without politiians
it's because they dont need it anymore in my view. we have now the war on terror, brand new shiny toy, much more effective for intervening across the planet. 
[applause]
the war on terror after 9/11 when the intelligence blabla came off
the war on terror after 9/11 often ...when the intelligence.. came off has provided the perfect pretext...

it hhas produced the most amazing pretext for intervening in any country which have been harbouring terrorist, whatever that is or … whatever this is

we have a situation where the president on a tuesdaz sits down and he's presented with a list from the CIA 

electronic intelligence, saying this person is a terrorist.

those people are a fair game. this …
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and we have a sitaton where its not just our right goign, we have a sitatuuion where thepresident of the us is presented a list every week...saying this person is a terrorist and this is the CIA's kill list
 
 
 
 
 those people will be attacked by kids in america
 
 where whole families and wedding parties and village …. are irredicated
 
 
 this is disgusting
 [applause]

we have a sitation whrre the uk spies have been cought up and tried and found guilty  have been tried for torturting...

for torturing terrosrist suspects

noboy has been held on trial
these might be people i used to work with, you know, go out to dinner with and they are protected by a very powewrfull establishment

there beeing protected by the establishment and this is all part of what i see as the growing facism there is no … words

it',s a growing facism
[applause]

I say that advisadly


that is precisely what we've seen

the war on the internet I dont need to go into detail here in this crowd
uncomlicitz o
the disclosures of Edward Snowden have laid bare …

this is not just about trying to stop the free flow of information where they can spy of what we send each other
This is also about the 
interesting information
beThey want to cause they want to controll that information and over tpay for it, and they have us in a phe incer move
there is a big rim across  the atlantic
what is going on, how many rights oare we loosing, the fact that this cooperations can...
you sign here you can't read it? but we rather …

and then of coursse the ?? of that, the inveitable pushback of that, is the whisteblowers

pushback of that is the whistleblowers

this is, someone described it as the last … 

weve had this whole... coming out of the banking system
they need a voice, they need protection
and Edward Snowden
like thomas drake and bill binny and john correacu, who is the CIA officer
who is currently in prison although the tortorers are not in prison

is becoming more and more intringed and it's still working we have a siatiion where in america, they have a law in the 19xx espionage act, that is used against whistelblowers, not spies, and president obama has used this law against whistelblowers more than...

has used this law against whistleblowers more than any other president before



if they cannont  survive the proess of coming forward then we will have not have future  whistleblowers...coming forward 
this is one of the things wikileaks is being so good... trying to support people like edward snowden

… of whistleblowers

there is also something we all need to support, we need to protect
there is the free snowde.org website and you can all donate to his defence fund
there are other campains.... julian assange, john co… 
there's so many of them
we need people who have the courage to ... stand the fight
...and they lose everything
then future potential whistelblowers, and there may be some here
im working in this organization
As a single person I can make a difference

set up this protective umbrella organization to help
[applause]

not just survive but flourish
we are setting up this
umbrella to help

this will help,, this will channel funds, will channel support and ... called courage, the fund to protect journalistic sources.

many many journalists break great stories with whistleblowers
what happens to the whistleblowers? they are left …

we want to show, that they are valued...brave...

we want to support the whistleblowers out there …

there will be enough money in a year or two
we want to support whistleblowers and encourage new whistleblowers to come forward

Please keep an eye out for that.

You can find the new site (I think you can find the site ...)
we want to encourage future whistelbowers, without them we dont ahve a clue of [whats going on??]
more and more the laws are crussing decent, are crushing recistance
as a group, as an organization
I've said this many many times. The political process is broken. Democracy has been cooperartized.

[applause]

We can't resist in the same way we used to think we could. Civil society …..they are infiltrated.

We can't plan, we can't think, we can't write.

i think you should start to see yourself as a resistance.

Please go forward and fight!

[Big applause]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Here, the subtitles for talk "The Four Wars" are supposed to be created  
  
Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)
or the table of ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[X] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

