Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
 
Seeing The Secret State: Six Landscapes
(en)
Trevor Paglen

saal 1

Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[ ] English 
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


However in the real world, secret only exists in the real world, lin the material stuff that world is made up of.

Secretcy is ..
Balck budget is also made of soicial engineering instutions, the fisa cout, the state secrets presedence and so. 
all that is underlinding the fact taht secrecty is not what you know and what you dont know. but rather a state that operates within a logic that operates within itself that ...

the question is if secrecy is a way of organizing instutions and society in such a way to render society silent how do we go about seeing them

so in other words , seeing this invisible matter and the visible matter we can see something and do something abou tit.

secrecy is a self contradictory thing. this organizing logic of secrecty as it takes hold and articules in the material world an it is never effiecient.

secrecty is not efficient because if it is made up of things that the rest of the world mades up then it has light.  if you want to build a invisible airplane you cant build it in an invisisble airplane , you have to build it in a visislbe hanger...

methodogically, what i try to do si where does the secret world interesect with somthing i can see and find.

using that methodolgoy in secrecty and the secret state that surrounds us all the time, is to see what is around us all the time.

logistics . if you are going to operate secret wars and have military wars and 200 country with bases etc.  you need to have logistical support fot that.  almost always contains airplanes, and so a number of years a go i was interested with the cia rednition program. the torture pgoram they are running around the world.  one of hte idea was , iw as working with investigative journalist, and the idea was if you could track the airplanes then you coul dunderstand what the geogrpahy of this cocert action looked lik.e

we knew peopl ewere dispappearing all over the world.  the cia would come up and say we cought () and then he wouldnt show up anywhere.  we thought he had to be somewhere . this is what we were interested in.

if you are cia or miliatyr one of the things you do for logisitics is to create front companies. its a good idea because it keeps your nam eoff of things.  it never says cia nsa etc in the paperwork.  its a very good idea secondly because there is much fmore freedom of movement to civilians than miliatry. if you want to charter a palne and go to pakistan as a civilian , no big deal.  if you are military and you fly in, well you just started a war.

the problem with fake companies is that you have file the same paperwork as civilians. the theory was if we can idientify the airplane companies in this program and track them we may be able to tafck them.  we thought, if i were a front compnay, what would i need to do?  well, i would want to fly and land at every miitary bases around the world.  so we thought lets write to military bases and ask for all civilian air plane flights.

this is the document called   Kalp (?_ )  you will find all kinds of certain flights and most can only land in conas.  then you find stephen express leasing. they can land at any whre.  richmore avaiateion.. these all have worldwide clearances.  premeir transport services... *laughter*  anywhere there is various..

Premier exuctuive transport service.  they have an address 339 suiot  dedham massachusette, the   The sign outside says Attorneys, a couple of divorce lawyers outisde of Boston. When I went in tthere to ask, they threw me out.

I kept looking. its a public compnay. they ahave to file articles of coorperation. I was interested in the boards and stafff. like coleen and james and Brian, and ..Tyler Edward Tate (my favorite) ihis birthdayte is in 1950's , social is .... no electronic trail with this person. his only address is a po box outside the Washing DC airport.  so i did a reverse records search and... hundreds of name show up *applasuse and laughter*

so going back to airplane companie, so go back to FFA and want to see all serial numbers and registration numbers.  I want to see the flight plans now, an then you start to get docuements that look like this.    *gives all locations*  we started tracking these routes to a single location  ...

this is map drawn by a former prison of what he thought this balck or dark prison looked like. we were able to find the probably location of a cia black site in Kabul and we flew out therere and we had a hard time finding a tax driver to find the road it was on.  we had to find a deriver who kniew the roads before the soviet occupation.

as you leave afghanistan, we are in traffice jam,   of goats and rraditional afgan man.  but we notice that this sheparhd is wearring a baseball cap and the letter KBR are onthe cap. the KBR is  kellog brown and roude, subsidairy of Haliburton.   A coupmany Dick Chencey was involved with.  This is another black site in Kabul.

...

what other architecture enable this covert action, front companyes.  The front company are grey zone, they do real work somtimes but htey also do work for CIA etc.  Two of these ocmpany's got into a dispute into billing.  Sports flight airways and .....  They charter flights for sports teams and the CIA.  im not making this up.  The lawsuit ended up going in to the district cour tin NY. no one recognized this, includeding the CIA. so no one got it thrown out of courts with state secrete.  So there ended up being hundreds of documents and you find invoices for reindition flights and from *many locations*.  Invoice for telephone calls taht were made during in flight !  they were tyring ot get reibmbursed for satelite phone calls.  and also despostions.

so i strated making this gian map trying to understand all this information.  Dyncorp and sport flight ....

so i started phographing these places to see .  And took picturews of people like Bill Vigil that were mentioned in the documents.  

What this all adds up to is the everyday landscape and very secret and covert operation and evil.  It is all around it to me quite terrifying.  

Places to see secrecty. You can just look up outside.  I spend alot of time out in Nevada. most drones are out in Nevada and there is a little airforce base called Creche airforce. you park you car and then you look up in the sky and you see what looks like a bunch of insects taht are drones.
This a a video of a Drone . its sounds like a tai fighter.

These kinds of sky scape ares... im really
*applause*
when i am seeing is there a drone. im thinking what do they look like as far as historical images.
I also spend alot of time looking at the night sky and what Im doing is tracking satelites and classified satelites.  All the secret things in the sky.
we are on this theme of contradictions and the same  ...

they all have to obey keplers law of planetary motion and you can get something in orbit you can model its orbit.  you can predict where it will go/be.  there are a couple of astronomors and they go out with telecopes and they measure reconassiance space craft. etc.  there are several software apllication where you can plug in to your sky chart and then you can try to photograph these things.  this is easier said than done

thanks to Edward Snowden this the the ....Crystal System.  That line in the middle of the image is the space craft running through the...

this is the noise and pollution bounceing off the clouds.

This is the PAN launched a few years a go.  It orbits around the aerth in the same ways the earth rotates.  PAN was interesting in the same way ... i had to fly to South Africa to take this picture.. so PAn there are all kinds oc lassified launch number and the military will always launch something, becasue they dont want the russians to think we are launchig rockets or something.

the thin iwht PAN does not have any kind of number.  some suggested that Pan stood for pick a name.  It has a rocket going off and a ?  so PAn goes up and there is a lockehed brochure  1828 bus (?) goes into stationary orbit over oceon.  what it this? if it doesnt have a number.  so at this point I am just makin gup conspiracy thereoties.  who want to have bandwidth over indian ociean thats not NRO , nsa, or cia etc?  why would they want to have bandwidth over the ocean?  its over kill to have didicated statelite to t do that.  lets think about what going onhere.  there are two kind of drones.  active drones and also ... drones in yemen and pakistan are run by cia.  the bandwidth on PAN can do 40 simultateus drone mission
then Pan started parking itself among other communication satelites.  It burns alot of fuel todo this and shortens the life span of the air craft. What is PAN. I dont know.

In jan 2009 (?)  my friend in Africa said usa 2002 (craft)  you should go see it.  USA202 is this thing in the bright light in this photograh.  It is the most expensive aircraft .  it has an antennae the size of a foot ball field.  No, you arent paying atteniton.  did you see what it is next too?  go look it.  This little line here is called Thirea 2 , what it does it do? it  is the satlelite ocmmunications for the middle east. hm. its just right there. 

*laughter*

I have fun with this photograph. so here is one of me photographing yosemite, .....

Secret societies are always fasnincated with symbols.  
Well, the same turns out to be true with the military and intelligence community.
Thgere are all these black patches and they makes uniform patches for the intelligence communities.  why are you making uniform patches  for black projects?  well it would look weird *laughter*

Like this squadron patch  made for secredt air squadron... (explains patch on slide - stff, lightning bolt, sigma, etc.)  bolt symbolized electronic waref are.. the 5 stars and the one star and that is the famous 51 base.  As we look at these logicistics.
......

If you are going to fly secret airplanes you need to refuel them and if you do that you need a secret tanker squadraon to reful the airplanes (shows secret tanker squd patch )  *laughter*

here at the bottom ....  NKAWTG (no one kicks ass without tanker gas) ...nobody

. This stuff blew my mind when I found out about it.  All of these secret service have football games and they each have teams that fly against each other.  The footbal teams, the red hats (the more is less, a bear climbing over the world with a red hat,)  This patch squad flies a small squadron flying russian migs over .....  This BHAS symbol is blue hats aint shit.  Thats what that name

Rapid capablity office patch:  These guys are in charge of the x37 plane.  The airplane has there only resusable vehicle.  Heres a picture of it in the sky.  This secret has this patch.

Doing Gods work with other peoples money is the slogan for this patch.
This patch is an older for ONX and the orbital inclination on this patch are accurate.  so you can find out where they are and it says ...   We own the night .  I publish this stuff

thee was a memo that I mentioned please stop putting operational details in the patches.
so then the NRO had to start making patches like this... NROL 39

Let them hate so long as they fear - another slogan on patch
*laughter and applause*

dont ask, none of your fucking business - this slogan for this patch.

so to go back to the original contradictory proposition
you cant make invisible factories, documents, paperwork etc.
they have material imprint on the world surface.
there are alot secret areas in the desert that the buffer zones are miles so you can see them.with your eyes.  I started looking for tools for astronomy and photography so I can try to see these things.  I asked if I could take a pcitre of jupiter, and tried to take it in the desert?  so you start to see a different landscape *applause* shows picture of landscape.

the big data center in Utah - pic
Timberline in VA - eavesdropping station 
In Nevada, this was taken about 18 miles away, when you photograph these things from the heat and haze, these things break down. 

In an image like this you are seeing two things. you are seeeing a classified military base and also when you have pushed the vision so far it starts to fall apart. At 60 miles is looks like this and ...

And to condue, a couple of thoughts, the world is constantly changing and my job as an artist is to see how its constantly changing.  Earlier today Travis Godspeed mentioned that a coup of guys werer pulling links from Drone stirkes around the world from open channels.  One of the themes is this clock.  

Within the visible world, i think that images are fundamentally changing until now. they fucntioned as representation of something in the world.  if we havn't reached it iyet, the vast majority of the images in the world will be made by mahcines for other mahcines an dhumans will never see them..  

I'll leave you with a final note which alot of peopl ask is, do i get hassled by law enforcement and agencies. ?  I dont like talking about that because I think that these are civic institutions.  I dont think the guy that made patches get to win. I dont think we should get to .. let us be in fear of them.  I make fun and laugh about them if  we do...


q: from internet >  there are two 1. do you know anything about underground bases.
a; sure. there are underground bases. the blue cube and nsa and if you are talking about underground basees in .. i dont think there are any underground bases that we dont know about.  the logistics.


we are out of time
Trevor will be in the .. bar. if you would like some questions to ask. 
*applause*

