Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
  n
   practice. 
   So after the talk i hope this is going to change.  I want to brieifly give an overview of what freedom of the information means. On the federal level in Germany there is a need for certain government institutions to hand out information to anyone who wants to see them.  There are exceptions to that.  There are secrecy and data protection.  Here in hamburg, there is a certain law that, that actually means that there are more inforamtion published here than in other states.  ....
   They found it as open knowledge in 2007.  They
   
   They do alot more than just this platform.  They use the users there 
   
   There are four stories I want to tell. And the first one Is drones in Germany.  Thomas Hessier.. cost more than it should have..  There were not allowd to fly them because they were not up to code.  So up until May 2013, some peoople knew this was going to fail but the public was not informated about that and there were few requests.  When would they come out, when would they fly etc.  The important documents like the Bellphebudest is still secret and you have to go to court and sue the state to give you the official documents. So, they claim there was an examption and were not able to publish it.  So the the data about budenshpere flights in Germany, (slide, various views) 0 hawk flights.  12 flights per day. Budenswehr keeps track of how often they have test flights.  Will the Budendswehr start using drones in Germany and will the police start using them. ?  In the US there is a site called muckrock that has data about drones.  They ask the users about what they who they think has drones.  This is an interesting topic and we should talk about it
   
   There was at talk... tried to find out form the statistical office and the individual communities and requested form freedom of informatin and could extract them form the huge data and it was above the threshold.  The data was almost worthless and the data was useless and counted wrongly.  Germany was using foia and could not rely onic id card.  There was a communication staregey from the ... mon press laws.  The press laws only give you access to questions.  you ... the next one is the electronic id card.  The {german} twas the identity card in germany and it has a bad reputation.  The Ministry called it the new id card instead of the elctronic ..
   
   It cost 75, 900 euros for ... there are wonderful things in it.  Someone fought to get out the negative aspects of the language.  There was supposed to be cooperation with the Boulevard press and no cooperation with the de speigel publishing comapny.  For necessity, the CCC said there were vuniberilties.  Serious vunerabilites for the id card.  Several of vulns were expressed and it cost so much and so much money was wasted ont he new id card.  the request for foi is so expensive and I say how much did the pr campaign cost and then we can see where we can save some money.
   
   Then there is the eu restriciton clause.  There is ....the court said there should not be one of the European govt. ... The german court said the eu parliment does not need that.  The eu parliment was lowered from 3% to 5%.  There was an internal paper about this form the interiiour ministry and asked if there can be a 3 % clause for the eu parliment or does it have to go away entirely?
   There was no answer from the ministry to that.  They said is was not possible to answer it because it was not a email provider.  This was very strange and I dont know how to respond to that.  Maybe we should try to go to court to have the ministry respond to that.  Maybe they could ... a paper.. it is not an official document... they talked about copyright, because it is not a official document and we publish it anyway and we see what happens.  
   
   This opposition says clearly that the 3% clause is not in line with.... this is a positon form the ministry and that ....
   Now it is published and ony if we know what the internal ministry is , then we can perhaps cause a change in politics.
   Now, a small look in the eu future, the map shows what states do not have a freedom of information act and what do.  Maybe introducuce transperancy law will ....
   The new official for freedom of information act person , we do not know what she will do.  It is with the interior of ministry that we have our problems.  The Frau Proetction service with the shaw maybe will come to use.
   
   Where do we get the big news today?  We think of Snowden and wikileaks.  This is not a lawful way of getting information.  We need to think about the lawful way of getting information and the ways to get this.  We need help from the froia and the rights of the federal lever are non existent.  Only the rights of the individual on the state level are existence. The new collition treaty there is no rights of the press also.  So , the request that I resended, I did not request any of them.  The people of the community requested them.  I requested alot of things back in 2011 , the project then took off and the people started using it.
   
   The froia does not make anything more transparent.  just because is there. The things we really want to know we have to request and fight for them. if you want to help our cause we stil have fundraising until 2014 (?_)  make requests and make more requests and thank you.
   
   [thanks stefan. if you have questions from the audience , please go to the mike]
   
   There is a nice list that I got sent a whole list of nice data, content. In the end the filing form the instituation that cannot lead to the reprimendation of the user/requester and we still have to deal with the instituation way of avoiding the request.  
   
   response stefan:  What exactly do you request.  Insitutions like to hide behind the formalities and they say have to collect the documents under foia.  They say the documents have to be bundled and released and that is  a problem.  Each state has a ....
   
   question:  asking about information about general information. I once asked about all the gas stations in germany and they called and said how do you want this info?  they can send you a link in the (,,) case scenario or best case scenario you get a cd.
   
[  } sometimes you have to go to court and the foia has been there since 2006. it is possible to go to court and the lower courts you can go without counsel(lawyera). We have osme funds availalbe for certain cases.  

internet  ( how can you make .... foia) 
[answer)Domocracie and other websites you can go to..
......
question:  How are the costs calculated and do they use fees to supress questions?
Answer:  yes, sometimes the fees are high.  It costs 500 eu ..  simple requests are free of charge. Alot of these requests we didnt spend anything , the invoice making is more costly than the actual request.  We did some cown fudning and got 7000 eurs for ACTA. 

The request for ACTA is still pending.  One for Stindler is the one that did the request.  Then ACTA came out.  We have to ask Marcos about the status at the moment.  

Frauchtenstadt is funded by .. we are any open socieity and the interns are great and we need your help.  Frachtenstadt ie... please make a donation 

   Stefan thank you very much and you sped up the talk and we almost ended on  time.  Thank you very much. 
   
   
Link and further information can be found here: 
http://streaming.media.ccc.de/saal6/translated/lq/
Stefan Wehrmayer 
The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[x ] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

