Here, the subtitles for talk Lightning talks day 4 are supposed to be created  
  
Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)
or the table of ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[x] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
Amara Link: http://www.amara.org/de/videos/zLQmTVh54kav/info/ 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

talk: how to write an open textbook over a weekend

a colleague of mine who happens to teach electronics

that was a book


LT 01
DHCXSSP by momorientes

Good morning everyone, I also have to kind of hurry because I have to check out at by the Radisson at one and there is a huge queue, (maybe?) the hugest queue I've ever seen at any hotel ever and it's all your fault, so I'll just start ahead.

My talk has kind of a cryptic title - and I don't have my slides on the beamer - but if you put some [colour into it] (...) you think, you can imagine. So it's a mix of DHCP and XSS, so cross-site scripting, but we'll get to that in the meantime of the talk.

First off, I'm momo, you might have seen me at the Infodesk, I'm one of the shackspace members, you can find me on Twitter and also if you're ever interested in the trademark hackathon bullshit, I'm the guy owning hackathon.de, so maybe that's interesting.

First off, I'd like to (invite you? to a somewhat ... my event as it happened?) I was sitting at my hackerspace, it was getting late, I was a bit drunk and I was thinking: "Okay, let's go home, let's go catch the last train", and as always if you're in a hurry, you don't get the last train, and public transport sucks. So, I was going back to the hackerspace because home is where WIFI is, and, uhm, [laughter] yeah. But, something was different at my hackerspace that day. There were not only - there was not only WIFI, there were enterprise, new, new enterprise WIFI access points. And, I think I'm not the only hacker if he sees the word "WIFI" and "enterprise" who has the natural attempt to break it, so [applause] thanks.

So anyway, I was sitting at the hackerspace and trying to break this goddamn wireless. So I was thinking: "What could I do?" You know, I'm not the hardcore Linux guy or hardcore protocol guy, so was thinking of boring web security shit, and, uh - [to the side] thanks - so I was thinking: it has a web interface, we could look for cross-site scripting in the web interface, I know some static XSS or something, cross-site request forgery, SQL injections or whatever, or we could test the underlying OS, but that's all boring and has all been done a thousand times, so, uhm, yeah. Let's think about something new.

I was browsing around this web interface, mainly being stupid, clicking around, and I found this beautiful screen. First off, it also has a common (?) field, I put in "script alert 1" (<script>alert(1);</script>) and I got a beautiful stored (?) XSS, but that's quite boring. On the other hand, you were seeing here the DHCP host name of the client along with its IP address, the assigned access point, the assigned SSID and some other meta data.

So... We have a DHCP hostname. What happens if we do this? Is there anyone who doesn't get - oh, whatever, I'll just explain it. We are setting our DHCP hostname to an illegal string, being <script>alert(1)</script>. So basically, our hostname shouldn't even get through the RFC (?), but our DHCP client allows us to and we have a payload in it. And guess what? It worked. We just have a beautiful XSS in the web interface, we don't even have to be authenticated [applause], or even better, we don't even have to be in the fucking management network, because we are a client. It has to display the client's MAC address, that's all.

So, if you're ever gonna to attempt this, there are a few things, uhm, to make your life way easier than I had because, I know, <script>alert(1)</script> is nice, but there's no payload in it. If you might want to, I don't know, have a payload including a dot, maybe an IP address to, to get your scripts from, uhm, try to use dword. If you google "dword" and "IP address", you'll find a neaty converter, basically converting your dots and your IP to some weird string, it's all math and all browsers support it, which is quite nice and I didn't know of it before. So, use dword if you don't want any dots in your IP addresses. And if you're fuzzing around or pen testing those weird things, just always, on every attempt, change your MAC address. Those things tend to be, tend to try to be smart, uh, to display your hostname and whatever, but really it's not worth it, so, uhm -
Nick: 30 seconds.
momo: Okay. Yeah, and now what? I've got 15 vendors affected. First off was Ubiquity, that's there nice CVE - you can't scan the QR code because there's this nice thing [referring to the bar indication remaining speaking time], but whatever. I can't get my hand on every shitty web interface that's out there. So please go, all of you, go out and pentest all web interfaces. Uhm, if you find something, please, please disclose responsibly. I think every security researchers knows how to do that, uhm, let me know because I'm interested in this stuff and you still owe me a Tschunk if you find something.

Uhm, yeah, are there, if there are any further questions, mail me to m@hackathon.de, write me on Twitter [audience counts: nine] or find me at the Infodesk [audience counts: six] - and I'm done.

---
Nick Farr: Oh, oh, actually, one, one quick - two, two quick reminders to all of our presenters who are hopefully sitting in the front row and know which talks are happening before and after theirs: your slides appear on the screen down here, so you don't need to go [turns head around, voice fades] look up at the screen to see what's going on [turns back to audience], which then cuts off your microphone. Also: please be sure to talk in the direction of the microphone and adjust the microphone so that it's pointed at your mouth. [Moves very close to microphone, voice distorts] You don't need to eat the microphone like this. [Moves head back again] If you stand back, at about this distance or even further from the podium mike, the audio angels will figure it out.

So thank you for that and you're good. Go!
---

LT02
Email encryption for the masses

LT03


--
------------shit appens----------
My name is tobias,
did anyone here use the toilets, did you like it?
have you been waiting for other people, alot?

this is a prject called shit appens.

it's unfiinished, not really started
it's about tracking restrom
sometimes it's easy to go an do whatever you du
but it's oocupied all the time.
maybe it's long distance , you don t 

it would be cool to know thats goint on
sometimes it's like this or more ope
yea I mean i's rbalby occupied

what's the benefit, i want vizualistions

you can get like graphs of how may go
how long they stay
i want you to participate
and we can benefit from that
you can build a community
maybe you have a shitbuddy that is using the same time as you
and we can have awareds

this is a serious project and bookmark this url
contact me if youre interestd.
thank you
----------------charlie----------------
 changed my car and it can send info th the lcd
 when you take radio out 
 I looked at the pinouts, 
 pin 8 -10 are clk data en
 
 this missing segment of display
 u
hard to do

had buttonm with don't care

i can start playing 

figure out the format
apayload checksum
one dir spi
mike in stereo

decodes messages

helped with understanding
used rpi
not good enough
i replayed data from radio through raspberry pi

frist arbitrarry text

thsi is how much dat a we can play with
also note differenc
lowee case are special

make a kernel modle for tihs
theres scripts an py for this
hidden under dashboard

all code is out there, shouldwork on audio skoda vw

-------------------------------------------------
all talks are translated up until the last one.


--fairnopoily-

was is fairnopoly
es ist ein online marktplaz
man kann es angucken.
wie sieht es aus?

[tut mir leid, kann nicht deutsch schell schreiben]

consequent transparenz.

komplett auf github

viel arbeit für konsekeunt tranzparenz

is das ziel.

fairer partner zur finden.

[reads slides]

korruptionsbekämpfung

optional kann man artiklen spenden. 
das ist otpional
hinter das genossenschapt, soll duck vidle controlleiren
wir haven thousend mitgliedr.
---------------------------
please look at the screen in front of you, don't turn to projct

---my name is hverrig-.--
this is an update to a talk from last year.
I've learned icelandinc
iceland s in the middle of the atlantic
why should you care?

it affects everything n the world

elections went well
this is the reps
ity in april
polloing 10-11% which is good

that is going to help as well.

city elections are different

the cable to north america is happening
5 times faster than connection to europe

the new constitution is sunk unless theres as massive vote

theres a msall it startup scene
interesting people showing up

develoåpment with low cost bitcoin mining

iceland got currency controls

my contact info.
if you have questions, hit me up
thank
s

_-------------------------

ok this presenter. the rule is I'm pretty strict about the rules unless I screw up
I realize that I couldn't this pres to work 
so we make exception to the rule of preloaded slides

I will kill time while they bring up the presentation
where were the funny noises
can I make any funny noises
where were you 5 30 this morning
not sure I can do that now

do I have the what online?

the q was do i have the app for funny noises
got some updates for apps I don' remember installing

are we 
do i need to give video over to her?
switch it..
--------
again, huge round of applause of pros working in this room
Okk micor wokring
I'm leena simon and working for commons mcach

we anna support free licenses
you may have problems with attribution

if our photographes puts photo under free license

she can put here pic on her blog
she attributed manually
we think the more we asttibute the more creatores are encouraging
it's drudge work

it's too compicated to keeep track

and as a priate user we have no legal dept at home

today no CC license is attrib correctly
it's very confusing
we g
work could be done by software
you chave catalog
 inmapes text 
 that you've ever used
 this could be integrated into exsitstin tools
 this could worlk like auto include of  accurate crdits
 we would be using metadata
 it would be easier to find work and attribute
 you could get nitifuied that w work has been used
 we want to presis[slideß9
 
 make it usable for everyone
 if youre interusetd, we have a  mailinglist
 you can
 
 visit our website
 thnank you
 ------------------------
easy pgp sharing 
translation in german on 8014

hi Im brendan for ux designer
I try to make seinding pgpg mails easy
so my mam can send messates to me
les complx the better.
not making it pretty
the problem is steps

no magic to make pgp easy
how to transmit key in en easy secure way

I came up with this idea
pgp is mostly cumbersome text
we attach by deault helps proliferate keys
at lot vill be unverifie.d
some solutions for this
fingerprint in real life
and thats great. i know that, 
but as soon as you tell a normal person
what program, how, are you using macpgp, whatever?
it requires reading and transcribing.
it's too techy
put qr code on a business card.
we et 311 chars
you can read on a screen
it has your info
phone to phone
there's name, address, fingerprint

transmit securlely to address book
on mailpile or other app

and it can make a keyparty easy
 
 ------
 soy you want to write tor pluggable transport
 what is itand why?
 this is your traffic in normal tor
 it's catually TLS
 characteristics, and random names
 these make it easy to block tor
 and they do infact do it this way in the world today
 when you turn on ofsproxy
 they only see random bytes
 obfsproxy is how many people use tor
 where otherwise mpossible
 may be lifesaving
 wonderful but not everything
 
 her's tor infrstructur 
 tor talks to your code, - magic-- and tor relay
 only limited by your imagination
 tor over, ssh, git, udp,
 we need clever things like random timings and lengiths
 we have it in place, but need creative idea
 to make it work, thers a  protoclo
 google these worlkd and find out more
 download the slides, because these are hpyperlinks
 
 every two weeks we have a meeting in tordev irc channel
 so ome hack with us
 
 
----------------------------------

hey there
i'm tobias
looking like shit appens guy but another talk
there are people here from umwel zone
people riding bikes,
but if you wanna leave but stop
there are firend and relative
where's this umwelt zone and that happend to me
download the app
a friend of mine and I used one month
theres a repo 

the app is basic, it has a map showing the umweltone of a city
pick a cirt thers info about regulation if it will change inthe future
other clues to luck up
if youre car is restricted or 
this is an official data source
you can have thoese pdf files with old maps and they draw the zone on
I asked for official info but they said its meant for orientatio

this is another onw
thanks to OSM we have some more citites
they wonderfool tools to gr?b the data with

--------------------------------
Kad node

going once,
going twice
------------------and sold.
confidence 2014

shey my name is slavomire and justice
we arrange confiden con
it's 10 years already
this year 12th edition
conference in krakow
about 400 people
increasing tech pres
first in 2005
as you see one in prague and warzaw
every may
between almos as hot as summer
poland is next to this country if people dont recall
it's super ieasy to get to krakow

we have the highways now
we can go fast to krakow and visit us
one or two tracks
super techinla
from harware and ending and secure architectures, and 
the tech parts are awesome
what can you se hare
we try to find an intersting place

we will use an abandoned, ? 

we call it the xtraction point
we organzie a spyring game

sneaking, shooting, phreak a phone
contact the ase
two team
yhe guy being a spy 
and the corp persion sitting at the office
then you break into oserviers

call for papers now

contact hare here
----------
we've been at this for an houre, so a quick break
come back in 6 minutes,
and then awesome retro
----break--------------
the three minute express round was an experiment this year.
I believe excpet for some submissions at 2am which were not serious we managed to get everyone in this year.
the talks are being translated.
I can't wait to hear what they did that

there's a declaration of indep for the internet
check out the pad there, 

help with keywords.

please check out this pad at this address.
give some keywords.


without further ado. s? ready to go?
Awesome retro.
-------------------------------------------
and I prepared for 3 minutes.
I sent you an email that you had five..

full applouse for the video guys who put the time on screen

hi im' stictch i'm from awesome retro
deedicated non profit 
bringing retro gaming to events
you may have seen sega etc.
seeing leading experts play video games
based in the netherlands
our first anniversary
made this awedsome 3d print 2d object
show you a few things that we do

we're a nonprofit working hard to make awesom thigns possibe

these are some slide of the crew
one large andce event
six large tetris pieces
lot of engieering went into that

same sizes, so can make all shapes
you see a large nintendo contr on the tent roof

lots of cool people
15-16 events each year
lend all kinds of retro gear 
if you have an event and nontprofit
drop by, send an email
you can use it at your event
our mission retro gaming for everyone
wchi is a lot of people
you see these projectors starting to de
in the fron you see this nintendo table
you can play two players
you can see a lot of opepo fail at this game
I did not see anyone beat this game
I'm disappointed
the record is the first ?

some lies
we have 49 consoles, that were donated
all cables and controlles,
prederable
we have partial consoles
and you see lots of cool people

____
That doesnt have anything on it except for configuration files ... ssh-keys. 

So, throw your hands up in the air for SMTP! 
It's three lines, and its only two if you dont use Tor2Web
And if you want more ports and more services on the same connection you can just use them

Ephemeral Perfect Forward Secret
But I also would like to have outgoing connections

So, we're gonna do a SSH
for a SOCKS proxy. And there's this wonderful

And we also don't want a hidden service that leaks DNS records.
But its enabling basically DNS SOCKS proxy 

____
(Bitcoinproof)

Thanks. Hi, my name is
I want to present to you a tool

The idea is to kind of use or misuse the bitcoin network as a way to timestamp your data.

Xou make some pictures

And this is not so much surpising, because the Bitcoin network exists to procide this kind of

But it's still possible to plug in other data into

The tool is quite simple. You can put in your data. Note that everything is calculated on client-side

And from this one a bitcoin address is calculated

because you almost certailny wont get it back.

This is a simple link to this Bitcoin address where you can put some minimal amount of money.

So, no need to put any more money on it. This is proof.

Theres also another tool that isnt mentioned in the slides.

The basic idea is that this 
but the network doesnt make any assumptions on the ... of the public key

Yeah and thats it. Please have a look at it

and tell me if it was useful for you.

___
(Why do children need an Open Source community?)

Im Nick, Im 24 years old

But this is not all too important because what I want to present today is an organization that

We started out with a holiday camp we ran at the FOSCOM. 

After that we picked up the work on the other projects.

And one thing is for example when we are building anetwork maybe between companies and students

I already mentioned the holiday camp we ran. This is a short impression of this event.

Not only do they attedn it, but they also run it.

Just as we did through many years among us hackers, we also want tot port this coimmunity to youngsters.

There are a few projects we intend to run in the near future

We want to build a communication platform. Nothing really new. We just want to put together

We do not blame this on the Open Source projects because they have some different problem.s

And theres also another point where we need to network because

one thing is of course, parents have an obligation to care

We need to care about this to get 

This is fairly easy

We need to help youngsters to build such a community themselver

Okay, I need to hurry a bit.

Thank you

____
(bettercrypto.org)

Oh, I think
do you wanna come talk for a second?

Chocolate chip cookies?

Im food hacker

Im interested in things that support the hacker movement in a way that its sustainable

We move on from the camp to camp, from the congress to congress.

Most of the people here know

So youre going to be

At the moment we manage to actually build



---last line.- scroll until you see this--

