Here, the subtitles for talk Coding Your Body are supposed to be created  
  
Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)
or the table of ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[x] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

so we're ready to go
the next talk is about your health
Here with us is Sophie Hiltner
She's a physical therapist. By training and has treated many hackers

[applause]
it's a great honor to be here with a such not computer oriented talk
But there is something you can do with your body.

first of all i will explaining this, you have hardware, your body, and 

daily things we do with our body. How your body feels at the end of the day / life.
Posture: How you're sitting and how often your sitting.
i give you some examples of treating patiens who were sitting all day long.

This talk is about giving hints what to change in your life
Every person is an individual.
i just giving you hints and what could be a problem
Hints what could be a problem.

I'm not say this is how you should do it, but it can help.

What you can do before things hit the fan.

Most of you are young.

So the hardware, we come to bones , connecting tissues

bones are made of two majjor components, the outer compact part which are really rough

A compact bone ...
the actually inside of your bone is really soft you can press into it with a finger, I have been often in an operating room and you can see how soft the inside of your bone acutally is

Bones are adopting to how we're using them.
this takes a couple of weeks ..
they are influeced by pressure and so on
the trebecula you see here, you see all s

We see here an x-ray of a bone

Because they do change over time if you do sport.
meaning when you start doing sports, they start getting more dense, if you sit alll the time, ...bones are constructed and destructed.constantly cells do this...these parts i'm talking about change all the time, and the trajectory line are the ...

If you sit all the time they get weaker.

the bone of the back is the structure in your body which is mostly stressed when you're sitting.
you have dffierent designs in you spinal coolumn for different tasks

They are racical parts are more designed for carrying weight

They will cause serious problem.

All those ... have differnent flexebility.

the neck you can rotate and bend and sideways flex and so on, the same can be done with the lumbar, you have this more developed sideways...only when you flex to the front you can have a rotation in the lumbar part.
with a lumbar, you have these more developed sidewaist, it can 

Most common problems are ... lumbar problem.
the connective tissue: the intervertabral discs are made of different
 kinds of connective tissua
Connective tissue has an turnoverrate. Thast means, if it's back on track again. It takes 3 to 100 days.

if you are having such a disc that is overstressed or a slipped disk, it takes some serious time and rehab to get back to where it was before the incident...they are something you really need to preserve, because they get stressed the most because they are stressed the most
because this is the active structure
So this is something you really want to preserve.

Any outer strucure which 
if you drink a lot they are fine happy because then you take up a lot of water, if you drink water. [many people drink something] sugary drinks make them swell up.d

This is the spinal core.
the nervs are lying right inside this bone canal

We're comming to the active structure. You can actively code.
you have long muscles at the outside of your body
all the muscles of your arms and legs, most of the muscles you can see on your own or someone elses body. they are actually for movement

Most of us have lost the awarenes to move them. We have lost the awareness that they are there. we have't used them for a very long time

there have been studies that these fine muscles are going cross wiring over different levels.
these muscle which are most important for stabilizing are rather fatty, because we don't use them and if we don't use them they are lost because when we are sitting the body doesn't need them.
even thin people.
if we sit we don't use them.
so we are in trouble sitting all along.
i would tell you to get up and move around, but this has to wait for the exercise workshop later.
i will show you what to do there.

If we would have more time. I would let you stand up and walk around.
So the muscles. The muscles are organised in strings (???).
I have just marked the ones that are extending.
whenever you flex one part of your body, another one has to relax, they always go in pairs and are called agonist and antagonist

its kind of david vs. golliath, the one thats short is the one that wins

What happens if you use a certain muscle all of the time. It gets shorter. Because the body is all about effecency.
so when you're sitting like this, the body thinks: great. these just have to work a loittle more, and the others...well i forget about these.
this doesnet work quite that well, they work also gagainst gravity, because muscles do memorize how you use them.
i see the hackers that giving massages
well i tell you: if it hurts: pain is always a warning signal. if you're not a professional, you don't want someone walking over your back and thinking...ouch that hurst.
the metabolites of the muscles get transported away, and if you open up the muscle: you see things changed

if you press harder, you suffocate the muscle. yes there are some advantages, like increased bloodflow. but i would rather you give soft messages, slightly pressing and ugging etc. don't squeeze. unless you have different experience...let me know on twitter.

Give soft massages. Slightly pressing those muscles, huging will always be good.

My twitter is @SophieHiltner.

so we come to the brain.
this are examples how tho posture can be. it is mostly biology, you can get your posture from your parents,
you will at one point see your parents and think: wait a minute, mom do i look like you?
its biology, plus habits + awareness. when i see someone sitting like that i think, hm i could sit straighter, but this only lasts for like 30 seconds. [laughter] you need to raise your awareness...in your brain: they fire together, they wire together. the more you do one thing, the better the brain remains. and getting rid of a habit just takes time, so take time.

Be pacient, if you want to change something, it does take time
Most sickdays are due to backpain.

those incidents usually last for 2-5 days and then they go away 2 years later, a couple more days, two years later you have a herniated disk.

Pain is a waning sign. The one blinking red  lights.
if you feeling the pain, ask someone who knows more of the body than the wikipedia [applause]
whenever a patient came to me, yes i provoke pain to give a good diagnosis. i need to provoke to see the problem in structure.
i'm going to raise awareness to activate the correct muscles.

All the examples are from patients of mine.

Stefan came to me with a ...

All I could do was ...

the spinal cord is pressed, nervs don't like cuddling, they need their own space
react with numbnes and pain.
if you feel numbness, you cant move your leg like before: serious problem.

Because all I can do there is relaxation and ...

i would always get a second opinion...
i had treated so many patients who was cutted open in the back, no fun
if you feel tingling in your fingers, it come from your neck spine.
it's called a spinal canal osteonosis. it can lead to  loosing functional muscles

gertrude came to me with shoulder pain from here to here. her pain was incredible and i had to work with force, i had to force the connective tissue back such that she could even more her arms, because she could only do miniature movement even when moving the mouse.

stretch sometime inbetween!

bottom line: your choice. one minute of prehab equals one hour of rehab. BUT you need a good teacher / therapist who looks at your individual problem.

It's your choice. What ever you do now. It's saving a lot of time down the road.

The ultimate key is repetition, repetition, repetiteion. Thank you very much!
thank you very much
[applause]

now we have some time for questions

oh yeah, please don't kill the messenger

Q: how much impact does it have to have an expensice chair?

A: how an expensive chair  vs a cheap char can help? eva, the very basic chair is his favorite, because its so uncomfortable and makes him stand up every 30 minutes, which is the best thing to do.
[applause]
There I go with the founder of Ikea.

A cheap chair is so unconfortalbe theat he has to stand up every 30 minutes.

Q: ?
A: in my career its more inflammation than infection which is caused by overuse.
a valuable hint for one or two in the audience is to watch that.
it possible to have infection, but its rare.

Q: If you start to get informaton about this topic take you from few to more movements. Can you recomend a website with good exercices?

of all the movements systems on the internet, which are good and easy to understand?

A: you can try to get the basic vocab about muscles, but movement is very specific, feeling it is important, and having this "oooh" moment is difficult and you need someone else to help you with that.

Q: This  ties into the first question about the chair. Do you have recommendations how not to sit wrong.

usual mistakes in setting them wrongg?

A: depends on you individuality, how tall you and your desk are. but the key thing is: remind yourself to get up by setting your coffee somewhere else etc.
staying the same way you body gets so used to it
i can try to recommend on individual basis, because people are so individual...some people like it on eye hight etc. i can try to give you tips in the workshop later.

Q: My problem in the past have been incompetent doctors. How do I not get bambooselt by bad therapists?
A:
make your point stand out. explain it to me. you have those people that just wont get bamboozled away. they just stay in your face.
many doctors are used to having like 5 minutes. and i receive something like "shoulder syndrom"...i'm sorry to say its hard. ask people: who is a good doctor for this or that, this is valuable information.

Q: Are there ratings for doctors in Germany?
A: i don't know, i never use them. i have my own box of cards and still collect them this way.

Q: I want to ask your opinion about acute back pain. Some doctors recommend giving shots. I want you know your opinion on this.
A: depends on the case. in some cases: yes pain is too big i cant do anything, in others i say try to keep shots away, because cortisone does something to your tends that weakens and breaks them. if i have to go  with force on your shoulder, and you got a cortisone shot. i cant do it anymore. so be really careful, it is a strong medication with serious side effects.

I'm very sorry. We have to spop now and let the next speaker in.

