nWelcome to the Subtitles Pad, nice to see you here!  
  
This pad text gets synchronized while typing, so that every person looking at this page will see the same text in realtime. This enables you to collaborate on the transcription of the spoken words! 
 
 It is also possible to change the main writer during the talk when fingers become tired.
  
Please recrute as many participants as you can. That way, we will create the best possible draft together which is later on used for setting the subtitles.
  
Thank you very, very much for your help! 
  
percidae (Barbara) from the VOC team 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Willkommen auf dem Untertitel-Pad, schön dich hier zu sehen! 
  
Dieses Pad synchronisiert sich sofort, wenn du etwas tippst. Jeder, der diese Seite ansieht, sieht den gleichen Text wie du. Auf diesem Weg kann nahtlos aus dem gesprochenen Wort eines Vortrags geschriebene Sprache werden. 
  
Der Haupt-Mitschreiber kann so während des Vortrages ganz einfach abgelöst werden, wenn z.B. die Finger müde und die richtigen Tasten nicht mehr getroffen werden.
  
Bitte versuche so viele Mitschreiber oder Kontrolleure wie möglich zu finden, um einen möglichst guten ersten Entwurf für das spätere Untertiteln zu erstellen. 
  
Vielen, vielen Dank für deine Mithilfe! 
percidae (Barbara) vom VOC Team 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
 
How to Build a Mind
Artificial Intelligence Reloaded
Joscha Bach
 
Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)
or the table of ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[ ] English 
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Joscha's gonna talk about artificial intelligence

have fun

Thank you. Im Joscha

I studied philosophy and computer science and
i say, it's very normal in this field

My main goal is to get as many of you engaged as possible …

Why should we build AI

…
Where should you start?


I think we shouldn't do AI just to do cool applications

But most interesting question that is for our culture is
how does the mind work

the answer to this very important question has to be given in the framework of artificial intelligence


It's qute familiar to physics

You can simulate it and run it and test it this way

and the details of that implementation
it doesn t
Many of my friends are philosophers

We as computer scientist, we do.


so you might be looking at birds or feathers..

whatrs the level of airodynamics..of the mind
i think it's information processing
then normally 
psychologie would be
and unfortunatelypsychology had an accident along the way
accident on the way
at the beginning of last
helmholtz beautiflul experience..

and pretty much at the same time we had psycho analysis
psycho analysis is not an actual scien

Ad this is not how physics works, you need...

But we cannot do it alone

Okay, now ther is big ethical question.
Is it not super dangerous to have some other on this planet
I would say that intelligence on itselve its not
This makes us social, this makes us interested on straightful 
But rather its 
...
its going to be.big organisations, government.
these will have goals taht

they are already the main player on..
the big dangerouses are already there

and the big dangerous of ai are already there
so i dont think that AI needs a simulator... and i think that ai is a big ...

it's a big culture project
the first question that comes to my mind is..it fair to say that minds are computational systems?
and if so what types of..

descartes suggested that we have baisically two types of things
other one is physical stuff matter 
this is Res Extensa
mind must be given 
we have to have minds to
mind seems to be somehow given (to Descartes at least)
they must be independant
and everything that we expericne...
and mind ..
which is i think the dominant theory today
and in our culture the prevelant view is
it is something that you dont find in china or japan

the 
its rout

In dualism

game success but the real thing is outside of this domain
who wrote this wordl of warcraft
he iss noct the only one who has root rights
he is a hacker, he is a cracker

[applaus]
he tries to game us out of our metaphysical 
now of course we are all good
at least in public and science

without this guy with root rights
maybe tehere is no such thing as a soal

people are

tith menas 
also this mechanical perspecitve is
Liebnitz describes this well, "imagine that here is a machine and this machine is able to think and perceive

and you go inside and see what happens and sou see just parts puching each others
its in con
and what he meant by that is
just parts and levers

pushing at each other
perception and what depends on it is unexplicable

this is what leibnitz meant
according to leibnitz
now as computer scientists we have ideas about machines
f
machines that can bring forth thought, ideas, experiences and perception
an idea of turing in 
basically you can emulate computer with other computers

run bla in bla
does provide computation
lets define a minimal .. receipie to compute
this rewrite head will ..
and can again read them
whenever it reads them

sequence of characters on the tape
everything to action with left right action
leave state

is able to perform
find limits of that
ideas of showing limits of that

Turing has shown that this thing is able to 
physical realation of this turing machine
turing machine is a purely mathematical 
but tis machine triggers basically the same critisism

the turing machine could be realized in many different mechanical ways

could even come up with a 
clever arrangements using cats mice and cheese

and you could ask yourself
intrinsic powers 

biological nuance

any way if you have.. next year we build a truring machine from cats mice and cheese
I don't know what the arrangements of cats, mice and cheese 
these guys are a little bit eratic
next year dont bring bottles for the dseidenstraße but some cheese
if we just instead take all of hamburg

stack it with the 
4kms high
imagine we cover hamburg in solid cat mice and cheese flip flops maybe..
[applaus]
so of course its an intuition
and dont think that..
thats the big problem of phiolosophy


where are very often working with intuition
In computer science its different. It doesn't matter what the audience thinks if it runs
in your first semester you are going to point aut...
there is a mistke on the blackboard
same thing in philosophy just doesnt work this way
Anyway the turing machine is a good definition because
it leaves people with this intuition
its kind of linear
nor parallel in..
Even tough its infinitely lage and infinitely ...

lambda computation computation without wheels
it has the scary greek letter in it.
Actually i think its an accident that it has a lambda in it
super scary to people who are not mathematicians
copy and paste with simple strings


And 1937/1936 things were 
when he typed with with his typewriter
typesetters replaced the trianlge with a lambda
there you go, there you have your lambda

what we casice

cut the argument and paste it
And as a result you get this. Here replace all the y's with ab

that's all there is , this can be nested
we can take abritrary sequences of these symbols

So we have a programming language and Basically this is lisp. it's very close to lisp

[applause]

funny thing is that the guy whoc came up with list didn't think it would be a proper programming language
He said you cannot really use this for programming, but
it has kept on,... anyway. we have shown that the turing machine can compute labda calculus
Which means they have the same power. The set of computable functions …

Since then we have found many types of computational variations

mathematical proofs can bem computable
all of these approacehes have the same power
The ideo, all the computational … have the same power is the … thesis
We dont know abaout the future, so we cannot prove that. We dont know ...
But eveything we found so far and everything we probably ever find has the same ... power

this kind of defines our notion of computation. It also includes programming languages
can use python to compute a turing machine and use a turing machine to calcultate python
Graphics are going to be a gizmo …
we can take neurons and produce .. models

they are computationally expensive but it works

we can simplify them …
we could use crude simplifications
apply some 


associative learning 
it's turing complete
weak computationalism: "the ideas that minds are computer programs



into mental representations using using this program
thinking, feeling, dreaming 
in such a computer program. this is the idea in computationalism

In fact you can go one step further to strong computationalism

the universe doesn't let us experience minds
Information is something very simple, you can define it mathematically.
We can measue it in yes/no decisiions in Bits 
there is according to strong computationalism the universe is basically is a pattern generator…
can be explained by the fact that the universe seems to be able to compute. that is to produce 
we get a new kind of ...
not the idealism 
but rather computationalism

computations are primary
Okay a lot of people do not like the idea that
which was a phycisist.

The brain uses quantum processes to produce conciousness
the quallity of understanding and feeling possessed by human beeings is something that cannot be …
how can quantum processes do it

but it;s possible

I think what he basically does here is that he perceives as mysterious and … and tries to 
Shrous one mystery in the other

So I don't think that minds are more than touring machines i think that minds are less than touring machienes
it's actually much more troubling than that

all real computers are constrained in …

they cannot compute every computable function
the turing machine will have finite tape and will have finite steps in can cumculate in a time

And the thing is
There is no set of mumbers N and M for the tape lenght 
the lambda calcus
and the same N and M or the simmilar N and M for the lambda calculus

Those that we can compute efficiently

Some problems are unsolvable in principle
Some problems are unsolvable in practice
In these problems there is the idea of
finding the key for the encrypted text
And then there are non-decideable problems. Problems where whe cannot find out
problems where we can not find out with a formal suystem whether the answer is true or false
because we can show how



but here is a test quaestion
if you choose one of the following answers randomly
what's the probability that the answer is correct?




How difficult is AI
It's a very difficult question
We don't know
but we do have some numbers

The cells in the cortex are organized into circuits arrangend into cells of 

and even lower long range connectivity and the brain has a very disticnt architecture

very different functional purposes


And the layout of these individual neurons the neuron types


all defined in our genome, of course. And the genome is not very long. The humen genome project fits on a CD-ROM, it's 775 MB
computation complexity of definiting a human being is less than microsoft windows
only a small .. of that codes for 
I'm not just a philosopher or a dreamer its beacause I'm a Software Developer
I know it's impossible to say when you are done without a full specification
We all know the shortest computer scientist joke:
"it;s almost done"

We never know whne its done
Even if we have a rough direction and I think, we do, it … how long it will take…
A question of whether to take small incrimental progress

And some part of that big question of how long

We had information theory by claud Shannon he captured the idea what information is
Describe the world as systems and systems are made up of 
Enditities and relations between them and along these releations we have
feedback
dynamcial systems
killed by second order cybernetics by this matterane stuff and … turned it into humanity and then died???

most of them went into articial intelligence



then the Idew how we can …abstract… networks in distributed systems

parallel distribution processing
and then we have to movements of automatic
self directed, goall directed sustems
and Those of you who have 
very easy read, interesitng
most of the important criticisms
most of teh important answers to the most important criticisems and it also 
the turing test

to judge the ability to engage in meaningful discourse.
which includes creativity, and empathy maybe, logic and language, anticipation memoy and so on. the Idea of AI …darthmouth conference … in 1986
came up with lisp 
more famous for writing the …
logic and language

story comprehension
for the projects of using computer scrience to understand the mind
Marvin minsky coined the term Artificial intelligence

Claud shannon was this information theory guy
They had the funding nad had this good time
which gave them the idea that AI is done very soon
In 1969 Minsky and .. against the ide of .. networks
they won. the argument they won.
but

wrote a small booklet a

it was wrong
most people did logic based systems

In the meantime people .. world is basically logica expressions

descrive the world as logical systems
only did robotics in the future
mental representations of how the mind works


And at the moment AI is 
statistical methods to better machine learning
it's very useful
a very different question on how to understand the mind
if you want to go to the moon you have to shoot for the moon.

So there is
aartificial general intelligence or biological inspired cognitive architechtures

is to use information processing
the tools that we need to do that we have to build architectures we can test
we have to have universal representations
and not just models to do taht

We have to have universal representations, which means
which means the represnations must be distriubuted

both distributed and symbolic

So we need to do language and planing and 
and we need operations 
And we need operations over these representations it's probably semi …

we need some kind of universal motivation that is something that directs the system to … creativity
to do all the interesting thinks you wanted to do

and maybe we want to inderstand emotion
so we want to understand  universal . representations that give us … planning and reflection … and … language and all this interesting things.

and planning and reflection and language 


and tehy should also be able to retranslate … to perform actions
and maybe we also want some feedback between the actions and perceptions 
has a name that is called an "environment"

This situation model is present we also want to memorize past situations
This protocol memory  as part will contain things that are always with me
ascribe to myself
declarative memory and proceedural memory

Right now I'm in the frame of giving a talk if i would take a 2 year old kid the kid would interpret the situation different than me
This frame extends into the future horizon. I know, my talk will be over in about 16 minutes.
I also have plans, things I want to tell you

And if i gerealize this i will find that i have longterm momeory, a world model and a mental stage

I need some kind of action selection that mediates between perception and action

And the demands of the system should create goals

We are not born with our goals obviously, I don't think I was born … to give this talk.

There must be some demand in the system which enables me to 
Have  a biography hat has this goal ot give this talk to you

and so lets come up with a set of demands.

Some of these demands will be physical, like food, water

Hot and cold
Then you have socaial demands.

The demand for affiliation that we get 


whichs is colled honor or something

And then we have cognitive demands and these cognitive demands are competi… aquition.
we want to learn, we want to gain sckills
It's good to learn a musical instrument
we want to reduce uncertaintly matimacians are those people who have learned they can solve uncertainty.
and then we find new uncertaintly
so for mathematicens, mathemaits is an unending source of pleasure

[applause]
what if you are studying mathematics in germany and you are not gvery good at it
You become a teacher

[laughter]

And this is an very unfortunate situation for 

And most people in our culture are ... with mathematics
which is a very bad thing, so peaople avoid it

Nayure has had to pull some strings and levers hernently 
So there 
and of course 

Emotional modulation and affect
How is it possible that a system can feel something

and the answer that i found so far is, that 
feeling (affect) is the configuration of the system
the state of arousal taht we are in

the respolution level
therse two together 
we are living in a very different and dynamic environment
mybe we need to interact with other people
maybe you are in stressful situations


and we conceptualize ourselve as ... and this means
this is what it means to feel something, this difference in configuration

out corrent extimates of competence 



So the affective state is ...

Higher level emotions 
emotional content
this gives you a very simple architecture

I would like to shamelessly plug a book
Its called Principles of Synthetic intelligence

So it doesnt give you 

The first one was in Java in 2003 with realy simple xml files and so on
The new one runs in the browser and was written in Python

This gets us back to the question is it one big
is it going to be incremental progress

Whole, testable architecture

Universal problem solving, motivation, emotion and affect and so one.
Hundres and hundreds of PhD theses
it's doable but it's going to take a long time
we realise that we can test it 

and that out initial idea was wrong
what should you do if you 3ant to get into AI

basical methodoly , programming language
software development, test driven development
probabilistic approcehs, kalman filters

graph theory, hypergraphs
So do it for fun, its really fun



Then you want to look at things
you want to look at multiple implementations
and you want to look at

I don't think that you should stop there

We need to learn more about linguistics, we need to learn more about..

philosophy of mind
study cognitive science

So what should you be working on? Its one of the 
inheriance and polymporhpy , how you can
partial representation
each time if I say, I have a hosue with 9 stories

How we can implement this?
And of course we want to implement time
time
certain space
physical loops and uncertain loops


Next thing perception: 
Top down- it's driven by what we expect to see
we actively checkk for stimuli in the environemnt

and this bottom up top down process 
and we can adapt the given environment

and it's useful already
Categorizatioon:
you want to have
what they mean by these categories
Pekanise in the one and cats in the other
Whats the difference between cats and dogs
but if you suggest it to me

We dont want to have specific solutions, we want to have general solutions
Organizing mental representations 

Sociality
interpreting others
Personally properties: how can we understand and test it further
Attention
How can we direct attention in mental resources

Persistense: How we can 
Benchmarl problems: how to drive a car, and how to play soccer
and chess playing toasters
But actually we want to have a system that is forced to having a mind

tasks that enforce universal problem solving

Last but not least it needs to .. funding
something that people can understand and interact in

So this is the bunch of the issues that need to be .. adressed

and this means for my imediate scientific career
and for yours

You'll get a little bit more information on the home

You can also send me emails if you are interested

[applause]

We don't have any time for questions

Unfortanelty we are  





