Welcome to the Subtitles Pad, nice to see you here! 
  
This pad text gets synchronized while typing, so that every person looking at this page will see the same text in realtime. This enables you to collaborate on the transcription of the spoken words! 
 
 It is also possible to change the main writer during the talk when fingers become tired.
  
Please recrute as many participants as you can. That way, we will create the best possible draft together which is later on used for setting the subtitles.
  
Thank you very, very much for your help! 
  
percidae (Barbara) from the VOC team 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Willkommen auf dem Untertitel-Pad, schön dich hier zu sehen! 
  
Dieses Pad synchronisiert sich sofort, wenn du etwas tippst. Jeder, der diese Seite ansieht, sieht den gleichen Text wie du. Auf diesem Weg kann nahtlos aus dem gesprochenen Wort eines Vortrags geschriebene Sprache werden. 
  
Der Haupt-Mitschreiber kann so während des Vortrages ganz einfach abgelöst werden, wenn z.B. die Finger müde und die richtigen Tasten nicht mehr getroffen werden.
  
Bitte versuche so viele Mitschreiber oder Kontrolleure wie möglich zu finden, um einen möglichst guten ersten Entwurf für das spätere Untertiteln zu erstellen. 
  
Vielen, vielen Dank für deine Mithilfe! 
percidae (Barbara) vom VOC Team 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
 
ID Cards in China: Your Worst Nightmare
In China Your ID Card Knows Everything (en)
Kate Krauss

saal 2
12:45  pm   2013.12.29 

Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos) 
ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be:  
[ ] GermanProjects:Subtitles
[x ] English  
(the orignal talk-language) 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Moderator: Good morning everyone of Kate Kraus about ID Cards in China. (Übersetzung bla)
This talk will be translated into german as well.
Kate: Thank you everyone Im an AIDS Activist from the US (I can' t do this) s
I'm here to talk about large scale ..
looking into the crystal ball. 
pepople who know about it are spying themselvs, or riksing there lives
to get a CS degree you have to join the PLA .
this info is not comprehensive, a lot of gaps I hope people are able to fill in those gaps
china is a country with 5000 years of incredible history and culture
we are not going to talk about ay of the good stuff today
there are people .
also that. 
there are people who say since snowden they are living in science fiction but mmany people in china are

a little card with antenna , and they are mandator.
china has 500 demonstrations every single day
People protest when farmland is stolen,. happens to 400 million famres every year.s
and protest when developers collude to demolihs farmhoused.
people are called petitioners, and may be beaten arrested and jaoiled

according to . form al jazeera black jails are hlding facilities for petitoers coming into town, 
It is hard to controll a billion people, actually a billion and x or so, so top officials hateched a plan to put people who don't like them into special populations of .. they get special attention from the .. o f security
drugusers, people with mental helath issues..
the special poplualtion are human rights activists, bhuddists, .. sex workers, people with aids, laywers who work for human rights and accidental who cannot get their names out of ti.  
the gvmnt uses smart card to track them, iso out in the world when they go to a internetcafe
on the inet, checing into a hotel buying a ticket.
the government is already looking over their shoulder, unlike some places ppeople don't get folowed, they get beaten, arreste, most pulbic health experts have been beaten. 
In fact the black list numberf rom 30- 50 million and we know they are being trackd because wr have documents, 
I have better ones but I can't mask them so thsi is from wikipedia
it's a contactless IC card.
it gives up your data, and new ones have your fingerprint. 
new scanners work from a larger distance.
it is linked to your file, your religion,political beliefs, if your' a sex worker, have aids, ...
it solidifies ethnic groups in china.
there was a pilot in shenzhen. in which it included healt insurance status and reproductive histor according to to one chile policy
police had a gps on their belt and were tracked ...
you can scan a group of petitioners, but I found no proof of that but only rumours, 
but someone pointed out the US uses cards, scanning workers crosses between the US and mexoico.
this EZ pass, scanns you and pays your toll as you go throuhg and tracking you.
it seemed innocent at first, but it it tracking you all over the place.
hackers made it give a mooing sound when it was read, and in NYC it mooed all teh time

the tehcnology is there and it gets used in a lot of didfferent way

raise your hand if your countr requires you to carry an ID card.
WOW. (we're in germany)
raise your hand if its a smart card
raise your hand if it encodes your fingerprint
again the tech is there.
in china if you want to tweet you have to register with rout national ID number.

and this infor is sued to round people up
1.st of.. people with aids traveled to plead for ..
people used scanners to select epoeople to detains, . 
I wanno focus on this special population of dangerous persons.
people with aids in china. this i henan province.
millions fo farmers in henan and they were victims of a blood selling scands.
the gmnt did not want to accept blood outside china, so the started to pay them.
they would collect this into big vats. accoriding to type.
if anyone else in the Type B Barrel had AIDS ..
whole familiesand then whole villages started to die famously called aids villlages. And this is how about 100.000 people were infected with Aids in China


And the governements plan a was to let the people die off in secret we have documents that disclose this
the plan did not work, due to a whistel blower
heres a family
Here's a baby from one of the aids villages.

A womans health doctor was treating a woman, who had aids got it from when she gave birth. This doc tested other woman for HIV and discovered that the blood supply was not safe. traced back to suppliers in Henans.
they did not change anything after they realized there was a problem
she gave interviews to cureageous newspapers and word got out to the New York time and the governement was unable to just let the people die, and they hade to do somehting about it.
50 thoushand peopls have alread dies.
this is .. chi? she is a tough individual
She was harrassed by the police, was put under house arrest in like her eightes, err seventies,,. free through the intervation of this woman
received an award from the hilary clinton.
she lives in new york, getting care form columbia university.
so somtimes hilary clinton supports whilstle blowers. And thats an excellent thing.

But getting back to the id cards. These id cards are used in many ways.
chinas health depts, collects and enters data into the database, where the police can read and arrest sex workers. When drug users check into an hotel 20 minutes later there is a knock on the door and the police drag them away.

jorunalists wrote something negative and late went to buy a train ticket, and the word petitioner showed up on the ticket monitor, and the next day his microblog account was closed and he was talked to about the police. It is possible to mislabel people intentionally incorrectly in order to get them into trouble.

a human rights lawyer .
nobody knows which trainstations they are at, and it's kind of a mindfuck and you have to self censor.
you're censoring yourself so the gvmt won't have to censor you.
this is the big man of china, the politt bureau .. ocmiteee.
Li was the central .. in the blood selling scanda.
the reason he's on this picure is he's the premier of china.
but we don't know much about them. they get the spoils of a whole 

thes scannes are used to go after people, its gets info from the card. it does not phone home
here's a cheaper one, 47 USD.
this is my favorite baeacuse of name. the fugutive finder.
it can sacn your card, and check 100 databases to find out who your are.
it was made by an american company.
here's another device that the tsa would like to use.
the skull and crossbones means the guy did not passe the cheak

heare is an image of the buoy.
he's an expert in miltary intelligence.
he makes an app you 

here are things that need to be done by, 
we don't know how much is on the card and how much in the national databse.
we don't know what kind of encryption. we don't know if they are reporgrammable
wo don't know how far the can be scanned. 
and if the chinse government is using the longer range scanners.
there are lots of things taht would be useful.
heres something that would be useful to a small group under a lot of pressure.
sometimes you don't have to open your door because your surveillance is living with you. 

this is the worst type of fear? for chinese activists.
imagine dragged away, 
it would be great if theres something he could slam, click and it would take a picture of them, or the people taking them and send a messate to a human rights org or relatives.

We ned something liek thinderclap. 
It is good to fund groups that you already trust and respect. 

wellfunded groups can totally screw up,but if they are underfunded they can burn out.

that's basically it. i wann thank a hiuge number of people. 
thanks to the CCC and thanks for having me here

Steph lives in philadelphia and has spoken at previous congresses.
Griffin boyce makes tor bridges

John .

the poeple in anonymous are sources, not Anonymous. 


This is my first trip to germany, and this is the berlin patient. he's the first person cured of aids and the country that cured him was germany.

It was a chilling talk, but we still have time for questions.


from internet: the RFID chip got the most attention in the chat.
what about physical errors, how are they handled.

I don't have this .. we don't know the exact architecture of the chips in these cards and how to hack them
understanding the cards better and getting a lot of this stufff is not discussed oppenly, in other courntries you'd find people who've done it. 
it's not the same as other countries.

Mike 2:
more challenge than question. you alreadh have formed the challenge si up to us. theres is something to research. these cards are worthwhile looking at.
we need to get more than one card to know whats insisde.
how to obtains 10 cards or so? as a basis to figure out teh inside.
A: I don't think its impossible, and people hear this and maybe they have some cards.
lets hope for next year.

Q: get a way to track people abducted.
would it be possible to use the card. to scan the person, the policeman.
the card doesn't do anything itself.

the card holds the data, you need acomputer to read it.
I don't know

why not use the card against its master.
there is this thing if youre a lots hiker it sends out a tweet. 
but..
Mike 2
you mentioned list of undesiredable people, how big a problem is corruptions, with a bribe you ould be listed as a drug users. is this a big problem.

you can order fake cards, but 

I'm not sure who can enter the data but a lot of people,. 
bribign people is an interesting ide.

do you think you and US privacy laws is sufficient to counter the .. 

right now US id cards is a paper piece that falls appart, it's just cardboard. it's not even plastic, 
I think that , i worry that our record is not good right now.
right now it's fine but who knows what the future holds.
people need to keep an eyue out.
in germany you have the .. you have fingerprint data on the cards, 


I'm astuden of UCLA i was born in china. live in LA, I have ID card. and since I'm  US citizen I don't use it anymore
[applause]

this is a great congres. helpful to know. now you should say nothing else
i don't have it with me, but maybe we can talk later
I will go ot the noisy square. 


Q: I wanted a function to traced people taken by police. 
are they not searched, it's not an option to have it on your ..

Sometimes the let you keep your cellphone. 
this happens in US protest as well, they sometimes let you keep your cellphone for some strange reason. 

Something tiny, you can pick up and hide, something you can put up your, ho-hum.

anther q from inet:
chinese people having trouble abroad, do they have to take their cards, are they allowed to bring them?

that is a good question I don't know.

on the other hand, do people traveling to china have to carry a card. 

yes they do the have to have passports, we are not talking about passports, but internal passworts.

I am from china, i did not bring my card with me.. 

and thanks for your research another correction about micro blog. I can register an account without id number.

you follow someone you don't need an id number.
currently you . It is very easy for chinese to search for id number to input. 
wel

