Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
 
07KINGSTON25 JAMAICA: MALARIA UPDATE Dispatches from Fort Meade
Reporting on the secret trial of Chelsea Manning ()
Alexa O'Brien

Link and further information can be found here: 
  
The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[X] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For those, who apathetically condemn manning to her fate
...
This fact alone is all the more reason the public had right to court documents
...
She rejected two defense motions to reject the
...
Leaking classified materials to newspapers can by itself consitute aiding the enemy

[sorry, the speaker is way to fast for me]




http://streaming.media.ccc.de/saal1/translated/lq/
Alexia O'brien

CCC Congress today: Alexa O'Brien [@carwinb] on secret trial of PFC Manning, 16:00CET/10:00EST, Saal 1, LIVE: http://streaming.media.ccc.de/saal1/   #30c3


Wheeler speculates that the .. agaisnt manning because prosecution wants to...

Military pros. called witness to testify that the ....
cables cost ...
{whoa., shes fast alker)

talking about Guatano file.s the worst of the worst. 
The soutcom data 779 dtainie beifs called the guatenom files f.
Maning was charged for 5 of those 779
The three are thet tipton 3. They were fomr Uk and were released with out charges after 2 years.
Some of you may remembver how forerm gitmo guard flew to the guard to make ammends to 2 of the prisons.
You may alsm remember that they made filsm of anit gitmo filsm.  The us considers them all terrists. becuase they are involved in  ... documenting ?

They all concern the vast policties and mass casualites.  from three strikes.  These documents contain infinfo form the guarni airstrike video which manning wa snot found guilty of ..

just two month ago sthe nation published a document about these documents that manning relased, even though they dont link it to manning.

These two fragos were causing major fragos between the individuals in the military...
there is a rationale to this link from manning.
the guanny airstrike...
this picture ...  which mannign was not found guilty of 
but manning was found guilty of documents.
When manning pled to different dates it was part of the drama because the prosecutor did not have evidence and the airstrike video was ....  
this is still continuing today.
The grand jiury started e dec 2010 and was release by military prosecturo deteails. 
The commonwealth of Virginia .  The grand jury, also goes into the district of NY.
The attatchment.. we dont have because they are alsmost ocpletely blacked out.
These attahcment related to grand jury of wilike leaks, manning and twitter  (?) are all blacked out.  They are redacted.
Manning case must be reviewed by Buchanane.  Buchanan has the power to ...
{everything
Barama has only grandted 9 pardons and only those have not pleased guilty and Manning pleaded guilty)

......
Once you have established a National Security Investigation, requires the apporoval of the assistant attorney gen. of the ... division.  The counter ups.  The press shows grand jury as ... but this is serious stuff here.  It is a coordianted effort with nsa cia doj and ...   it it the llarges ever investigation of a publisher and its source.  the members of the press and public are in a gossip fest about it and this is a very serious issue.  clapper said this is a national ....

Manning is the greatest war story of our generation.  It is our all is quiet on western frtont

[reads powem]
...
it is our thin red line
maybe all men 
all faces are the same man
it is our catch twnety two
it was miraclous..
slander
arragance into 
thievery i into honor
balsphem into widsom
sadenism into justic

it requried no character

{she speaks very fast and the poeom was beautiful but i did not get it all}

chelsea/bradly manning is our story of our trial.  there is a document that recorded every two minutes of you time at the quantico brig.

audience: thank you for being at the manning trial when other journalist were not.  Do you think that there was stuff at the trial that we do not know about or the usually riduculous secrecty.

obrien:  it suspect it is the usual secrecty. the defense said that nothing was said int the closed sessions that wa of any real importance

audience:
once correction (sounds like jacob) we are not a national security risk,   we are a national security promise.  i think is would be usueful to create a foia and i've been targetted and so have many others . is there a way we can work with you to create 

obrien: i have about  200 documents out right now and im suing the govt next week so please  , (if you think your relate dto this , find me at carwinb.net  and we can get documents together.

audience: how does the manning case show us what might happen to Snowden?
obrien: snowden has said he was inspired and also learned from Manning.  We are going to get Manning out of prison because it is an aobnination that he is in prison.  Part of that is characterizing her leaks and wikileaks leaks in a proper and acurate light.
......  

audience;  can you tell us if manning is getting books and mail etc.  
obrien:  the defense attorny says she enjoys the mail she receives.  she has very strong pen pals that are imporatnat

audience:  thank you for info. this is a lot ot process.  I wwas wondering what was happening on the street about snowden amanning because i am curious to know if there is movement on the street if things ahappen , like what happen to manning, people still realte to political stystems and my question ois , is there a action ont he streets in america for manning?

obrien:  i am particulay proetecteive of manning because she leaked cocuemtns of the voiceless. of people who have no vote or voice.  I htink the hollywood movies have now come to bring manning to public but i dont think they are ...  showed her spirit or convictions. 

