Here, the subtitles for talk XY are supposed to be created 
  
Link and further information can be found here: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2013/wiki/Static:Projects
or: www.twitter.com/c3subtitles (most up to date infos)
or the table of ALL pads: http://subtitles.media.ccc.de/

The language is supposed to be: 
[ ] German 
[X] English  
(the orignal talk-language)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





[...]
all big fans of bitcoin
after 20 messages you need to ask a sysadmin 
needed to find a gateway to make anonymus payment
everyone left their phone at home
really difficult to accief real anonymity
*small video*
structure of the parliament
here are the texts we translated them
Here is the timeline
*applause*

He basicly invited all of them to the castle.

Second part
All cellphone numbers were made public.
Here is the number of the president of the parliament.
[...]
Imediatly we published our numbers.
So this are our numbers right now.

Q&A
Q: How did you get thos numbers?

A: We cannot say. 
But sometimes they publish their own number.

How long did it take you to plan who says what?
It took them a long time.

Q: i have 2 questions: first how long did it take you to plan out, and it it cause any change?
A: the first: we were searching for the concept for a long time, [phone rings] [laughter]
ok  since the moment we revealed the possibility of sms spoofing we were  fascinated and thinking about how to use it. we wanted to influence new  laws etc. finally it crzstailized, but we weren't in a hurry, but then  the opportunity arose after ... was arose. this was the opportunity we  had to use and only had one month to work hard on the techniques, text  messages etc. one month of hard work and one year before of thinking  about it.
another  thing: it was not an ordinary hearing, people were actually watching  the life stream of the session, and we wanted people to see.. if you go  through the messages they are very apolitical, stuff like : be better
also  interesting: they never wanted to discuss content, they never told  journalists about the content, just they received some from collegues  etc.
the politicians completely ignored it sadly
we tried to sent very positive text messages
it is therefore very dfificult to sue us. i want to see a politician sue someone over something was positive

we also thought about sending something completly different, like influencing voting etc.

heads  of political parties communicate how to vote, we could have influence  that, but didn't and really wanted to stay on the positive side

Q:  what i see: when you apply for id card, they photograph. what i see as  outcome of your project: they just improved their processes, is this a  good thing or not? if you didn't reveal those mixed identities it would be a nice thing because they couldn't improve processes.

A:  i dont think improved processes are good either, but there is a common  EU wide format for this anyway, which they were working on adapting.
interestingly: we two are not EU citizens so we are not...

in  czech rep. at the time when asking for new id, you just bring your own  photo but now this is not possible, because of the new european format,  so you photo is now taken

Q: isn't the effort of sms spoofing a bit wasted. because the politicians don't have the numbers of other politicians?
A: i think you are very wrong, they do indeed communicate and text message, your assumption is wrong.
They know each other on a personal level very well.

i received a message from number ending with 666 they said: great talk and thank you
*clapping*

Q: do you think your targets realized they were spoofed?
A: very few, i remember interview with prime minister "i received weird messages, but once i received from minister of finance saying "..." i realized this could not be proper"

there was one moment on camera where a few of them showed each other what they received and were very confused. if you watch the recording, there is a point where they start whispering and stop listening to the guy who is talking.
we were thinking about how to make them realize, but its very difficult....

one last thing: ... told us we just exchange ... for anonymoous texts, this day in the internet this is also possible.
in austria there is anonymous prepaid card you can buy for 50 euros, you can use it for only service, but we prefere bitcoin based sulutions.
If you have some bitcoin you don't like you can donate bitcoin to us as well. we want to encourage our followers and fans to 
use bitcoin because in czech rep. it is not very big and media attention is small

thank you very much
*applause*

